
Chemical Gardens: Today the crew removed the Chemical Gardens 2 ampoule kit from a Cargo Transfer Bag, broke the seal between the ampoules and mixed the contents of both. In the Chemical Gardens experiment, selected metal salts are added to an aqueous solution of sodium silicate (Na2SiO3), resulting in the formation of inorganic structures that resemble plant growth in a time span ranging from minutes to hours. On Earth, gravity-induced flow due to buoyancy differences between the reactants complicates our understanding of the physics behind these “chemical gardens”. Conducting this experiment in the microgravity environment onboard the ISS removes the gravity effects, ensures diffusion-controlled growth, and allows researchers a better assessment of initiation and evolution of chemical gardens.
European Space Agency (ESA) Education Payloads Operations (EPO) AstroPi: Today the crew recorded a message to support the kickoff of the 2018/19 European AstroPi competition. AstroPis are augmented Raspberry Pi computers equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measure the environment inside the ISS, detect how the station moves through space, and pick up the Earth’s magnetic field. One of the AstroPis has an infrared camera and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera. 
Double Coldbag Packing: As part of the final Dragon packing operations, the crew packed time sensitive cold storage science items. The crew must pack these items late in the Dragon packing operations to minimize the amount of time the science samples are out of refrigeration prior to being delivered to the investigation teams on the ground.
Dragon Cargo Operations: Today the crew completed the last of the SpaceX-15 cargo transfer operations as they packed and loaded the final items slated for return on Dragon. As part of today’s cargo activities the crew ingressed the Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) module to retrieve the degraded Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE) S/N 202 and packed it for return. While the crew had the hatch open to the BEAM module, they stowed the Treadmill Subject Loading System (SLS) into the BEAM.
United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) Hatch Depress Indicator (HDI) Zero G Testing: The USOS HDI is a new device that may be used in the future during a rapid spacecraft depressurization event to determine which side of a hatchway is the leak source. The first planned deployment into procedures and training will be for the first crewed demo mission of the United States Crew Vehicle (USCV). The USOS HDI has undergone ground testing; however, it is desired that the crew evaluate HDI behaviors in the zero-g environment so feedback can be supplied to future crews in training. This activity had the crew perform a demonstration of the USOS HDI in both flow and no-flow atmospheric conditions. They also performed a spatial-only assessment at other hatchways to check for interference and sufficient restraint/mobility aids.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Educational Event:  Today, Drew Feustel participated in a PAO event with High school students representing Virginia Space Coast Scholars – a STEM focused 9-month course, which culminates in a one-week residential program at Wallops and Middle school students representing Virginia Space Flight Academy – a STEM focused summer camp experience at Wallops.

