
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP): The crew performed a series of tests for the GRASP experiment which consists of 3 components including VM (visual stimulus – manual response), VV (visual stimulus – visual response), and MM (manual stimulus – manual response) series of tests. The purpose of the experiment is to better understand how the Central Nervous System (CNS) integrates information from different sensory modalities, encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate movements of the hand with objects in the environment. When reaching to grasp an object, a human subject must orient the hand so as to align it with the orientation of the object to be grasped.
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL): The JEMAL was depressurized today in preparation for the Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (EXHAM) activities planned next week.  Taking advantage of Kibo’s unique function of having both an airlock and a robotic arm, the ExHAM facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s Exposed Facility (EF). 
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): Today the crew restocked the rodent habitat and cleaned the access unit.  RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth. 
Standard Measures: A saliva collection was completed in support of the Standard Measures investigation. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions. 
Team Task Switching (TTS):  The crew performed experiment surveys in support of the TTS investigation, the objective of which is to gain knowledge about crewmembers’ ability to switch tasks. Results will contribute to both the reduction of any negative consequences, and improvement of individual and team motivation and effectiveness.
Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Test: Ground teams are conducting the final TAS Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 2 Space Station Power Control Module (SSPCM) converter imbalance today.  The EXPRESS team has noted SSPCM imbalance since initial commissioning of TAS and testing has been in work to limit the imbalance to reduce impacts to SSPCM operational life.  Results of these tests will be used to adjust TAS operations in the future.
Water Storage System (WSS) Water Transfer: The crew transferred 4 Contingency Water Containers Iodine (CWC-I) with a total transfer of ~77 liters to the WSS storage tanks.  Post transfer, the containers were disposed of as part of the larger plan to transition from CWC-I to the WSS for water storage.

