
Payloads:
Immunosenescence: The fourth BioCell media exchange was performed for the Immunosenescence experiment. The media is replaced periodically as the cells consume the nutrients in the media and waste products accumulate. Microgravity as a Model for Immunological Senescence and its Impact on Tissue Stem Cells and Regeneration (Immunosenescence) studies the effects of microgravity on cells involved in tissue regeneration and whether recovery occurs post-flight. Results could provide insight into whether effects of the biological aging process can be reversed.
Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 3: In preparation for the rehearsal session on Wednesday, the crew printed targets, powered on and/or docked the Astrobee free-fliers as needed, adjusted the JEM lighting, etc. The Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 3 is an educational program in which students solve various given problems by using free-flying robots (NASA’s Astrobee and JAXA’s Internal Ball Camera) aboard the ISS. JAXA hosts this program in cooperation with NASA under the framework of the Japan-United States Open Platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3). Robo-Pro Challenge 3 aims to inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, and world leaders by providing opportunities to learn cutting-edge methodologies in STEM subjects.
Plant Habitat (PHab) Facility: The crew continued the series of PHab maintenance activities by replacing the ethylene and carbon dioxide (CO2) scrubbers, CO2 bottles, filters, etc.  These activities are in preparation for the next plant experiment arriving on NG-18. The Advanced Plant Habitat (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXPRESS Rack and one powered ISIS drawer, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Plasma Kristall-4: The crew exchanged the Plasma Kristall-4 experiment control system hard drive, and verified both system hard drives are located in the correct slots. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas (low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles). The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles, so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Wireless Compose-2 (WiCo-2): The crew participated in a Ballistocardiography session using the WiCo-2 SmartTex-2 shirt. Ballistocardiography looks at body motion related to the pumping of blood by the heart. A questionnaire was also filled out to give feedback on the session. The main scientific goal of the WiCo-2 investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, low-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS. For this demonstration, WiCo-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system. Additionally, WiCo-2 demonstrates newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide-band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
Systems:
Mobile Servicing Unit (MSS) Robotics Operations: Yesterday, MSS was powered up and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm 1 was maneuvered to stow the Robotic Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) 2 to the SPDM Tools Holster Assembly (THA). The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) was maneuvered to stow the SPDM on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power and Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDFG 2). The Mobile Transporter (MT) translated from Worksite 7 (WS 7) to WS6. After SSRMS joint diagnostics were performed nominally, the SSRMS was walked off from MBS PDGF 3 to the Node 2 PDGF. SPDM was unstowed from the MBS PDGF 2 before being maneuver to park, along with SSRMS. These maneuvers were performed in preparation for the survey of the SpX-25 Thermal Protection System (TPS) occurring today and tomorrow.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: Today, the crew evacuated the ARED Cylinder Flywheel and Vacuum Slider track. The crew also tightened and torqued set screws within the ARED Cylinder Flywheel and Main Arm Fasteners.
Transfer Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo operations by packing cargo into Cargo Dragon in preparation for SpX-25 undock.
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking and spatial processing.

