ISS On-Orbit Status 08/07/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – Crew off-duty.  Ahead: Week 21 of Increment 27/28.  
 
Today 35 years ago (1976), Viking- 2 entered orbit around Mars.  Also today 26 years ago (1985), Takao Doi, Mamoru Mohri and Chiaki Mukai were chosen to be Japan’s first astronauts. 
 
As part of the daily Morning Inspection, FE-1 Samokutyayev checked out the SM (Service Module) PSS caution &amp; warning panel.
 
FE-4 Volkov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
In the DC-1, Sergei also terminated the post-EVA-29 recharge process on the 2<sup>nd</sup> 825M3 Orlan battery pack in the ZU-S recharge unit.
 
FE-6 Fossum opened the protective window shutters of Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, so ground images can be captured by ground commanding.  At sleeptime tonight, Mike will close the shutters again.      [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Fossum also completed Day 2 of his VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity with the Delta commissioning of the ERB2 (European Recording Binocular 2) payload, today disconnecting ERB2 from the ESA EDR (European Drawer Rack), equipping it with new batteries and shooting video of “Life onboard ISS” after an uplinked script.  ERB2 was then turned off, reconnected to EDR and the camera mounted on its EDR multi-use bracket.       [Delta commissioning provides final testing of the functionality of the camera, i.e., its capacity to transmit in near real-time live 3D audio &amp; video signal to ESA’s ESTEC Erasmus Centre Auditorium.] 
 
The three Russian ISS residents joined for filming a 40-min video session for Roskosmos TV Studio with the high-resolution Sony HVR-Z7E camcorder, to be used in a joint project with Carousel TV Channel for children ages 8 to 12 years, the “It’s Time to go to space!” program, which has a segment where Russian cosmonauts are discussing their work &amp;, answer viewers’ questions.  The footage was then downlinked to TsUP-Moscow.      [Andrey, Sasha &amp; Sergei answered children’s questions resulting from a recent competition for “the best question”.   Misha from Voronezh:  “My name is Misha, I am 8 years old.  I am fascinated with space.  I would really like to know if Aldebaran is visible through the ISS window.  I am looking forward to your answer”; Diana Galaktionova from Tula: “What is your most favorite food on the station?  Is it possible to cook space food at home?”; Svyatoslav from Ramenskoye near Moscow: “Cosmonauts on orbit, most likely, feel some pressure or concern that something may go wrong or break.  How do they handle their worries?”; Georgy Kolysh from Smolensk: “What personal items did you take with you? At what age do cosmonauts retire?”]
 
FE-1, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Satoshi at ~5:35am, Sasha at ~8:30am, Mike at ~4:15pm EDT.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

