
Payloads:
ESA Biofilms-2: Following the completion of the 14-day experiment session, the twenty-four Experiment Containers (ECs) were removed from the Kubik 5 and Kubik 6 facilities and packed for return to the ground. In the Kubik experiment Biofilms-2, three bacteria species (A. radioresistens, Staphylococcus sp. and C. metallidurans) are grown on metal surfaces in a liquid environment at three different gravity levels. The scientific objective is to investigate which metal (stainless steel, copper, and brass), and which metal surface treatment (polished and two different laser-structured), offers the best anti-bacterial properties on ground, on-orbit and on Mars.
Genes in Space-9 (GIS-9): The crew set up the appropriate hardware and initiated runs 3 and 4 for the GIS-9 experiment. The experiment runs will continue overnight and conclude Wednesday morning.  Cell-free technology is a platform for protein production that does not include living cells. GIS-9 evaluates two approaches for using this technology in microgravity: cell-free protein production and biosensors that can detect specific target molecules. The technology could provide a portable, low-resource, and low-cost tool with potential applications for medical diagnostics, on-demand production of medicine and vaccines, and environmental monitoring on future space missions.
Life Support Rack (LSR): The crew routed the LSR Auxiliary Power Cable from the Node 3 Nadir bulkhead to the NOD3A5 rack bay. This was done in preparation for LSR/OGA rack swaps which are planned later this increment. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the International Space Station to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Immunosenescence: The third BioCell media exchange was performed for the Immunosenescence experiment. The media is replaced periodically as the cells use up the nutrients in the media and waste products accumulate. Microgravity is a model for Immunological Senescence and its impact on Tissue Stem Cells and Regeneration (Immunosenescence) studies on the effects of microgravity on cells involved in tissue regeneration and whether recovery occurs post-flight. Results could provide insight into whether effects of the biological aging process can be reversed.
Ring Sheared Drop (RSD): The spin motor was installed in the RSD experiment hardware in preparation for RSD installation into the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) later this week. The RSD investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues; amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Thermal Amine Scrubber: Two carbon dioxide (CO2) samples and one relative humidity sample was obtained for the Thermal Amine CO2 effluent. The Thermal Amine Scrubber tests a method to remove CO2 from air aboard the ISS, using actively heated and cooled amine beds. Controlling CO2 levels on the station reduces the likelihood of crew members experiencing symptoms of CO2 buildup, which include fatigue, headache, breathing difficulties, strained eyes, and itchy skin. The system includes elements that reduce loss of water vapor, and recover CO2 for use in electrolysis to produce oxygen.
XROOTS (eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System): An XROOTS hardware locate activity was successfully performed. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2) Exam: Today, the crew completed OCT eye exams as the second of three regularly performed on-board routine tests to monitor crewmembers eye health. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three- dimensional images of tissue. In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in microgravity environment 
Water Recovery System Contingency Water Container-Iodine (CWC-I) Fill: The crew transferred water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-I using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). Water Process Assembly (WPA) was configured to isolate the Potable Bus upon the reaching a target offload. Crew monitors the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-I from over pressurization. Once the crew finished filling the CWC-I, the equipment was torn down and stowed.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.

