ISS On-Orbit Status 08/09/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday --- Crew rest day.  Ahead:  Week 11 of Increment 20. 
 Happy Birthday, Roman Yuriyevich! C dnem rozhdeniya!
 
  FE-2 Timothy Kopra closed out the second day of his FD30 session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, finishing his 24-hr urine collections.  Kopra’s next NUTRITION w/Repository activity will be the FD60 session.   [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  For the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Tim Kopra downloaded the current “FE-2” Actiwatch and stowed it, then retrieved a new Actiwatch, replaced its lithium battery, initialized it for himself and donned it.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  FE-3 Romanenko (who turned 38 today) prepared for today’s day-long wearing test of the spring-loaded “Penguin-3” antigravity pressure/stress suit with its load measuring system (SIN), then calibrated the SIN, donned the suit and its equipment and went about his regular daily activities, collecting performance measurements from the ATsP-E-440 analog/digital converter with USB cable several times.    [There were three data collections,- #1 after 1 hour of wearing the Penguin suit and adjustment of the set load if required, #2 after 2 hours of wearing the Penguin, setting of asymmetrical loads, and #3 after 3 hours of wearing the suit with asymmetrical loads, followed by close-out ops, transfer of data to diskette and downlink using OCA.]
 
  Mike Barratt started the second day of his first six-day SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) session, which entails a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings in two session blocks.     [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Mike will have to eat special diet (Session 1: High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level and Session 2: Low salt diet).  Solo Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are being logged on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  SOLO, an ESA/German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Blood samples are taken with the PCBA.  Background:  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
  Roman performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.
 
  The FE-3 also checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM (Service Module)’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Bob Thirsk continued replenishing the Icepacs in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) by inserting two more +4C Icepac belts into MELFI.   [The Icepacs were originally removed as part of 2J/A packing.  Nine additional activities spaced at least 24 hours apart are being planned over the next two weeks, each time inserting two Icepac belts (to prevent temperature increase inside the MELFI.]
 
  The six crewmembers had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Gennady at ~6:00am EDT, Roman at ~7:20am, Frank at ~9:00am, Bob at ~12:10pm, Tim at ~1:45pm, Mike at ~3:30pm.
 
  At ~5:13am, CDR Padalka powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at ~5:18am conducted a ham radio session with participants of the SELIGER 2009 Youth Forum.   [This is the 5<sup>th</sup> gathering of student-tourists, mountain &amp; water tourists, mountain &amp; rock climbers, sky divers, and representatives of other modern youth branches of non-professional sports.  The number of participants is 5000 Russian students and youngsters.  The amateur radio contact was arranged by the SPORADIK Radio Club from Kursk.]
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-2, FE-3), ARED (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3). 
 
 More WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) Troubleshooting: Yesterday, after troubleshooting cleared up Friday’s “Bad Pretreat” LED (Light Emitting Diode) indicator, this morning another problem prevented WHC usage by the crew: Annunciation of the red “Check Separator” light.  While the crew continued to use the SM ASU toilet, more troubleshooting and a functionality test were being developed for the WHC.
 
  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.
 
  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/" title="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 
