
Ocular Health (OH) Flight Day 10 (FD10): Yui and Lindgren, with Kelly as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed vision tests, tonometry, blood pressure measurement, and answered a vision questionnaire.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Defining the Relationship Between Biomarkers of Oxidative and Inflammatory Stress and the Risk for Atherosclerosis in Astronauts During and After Long-duration Spaceflight (Cardio Ox): Lindgren reviewed reference material, configured the ultrasound for his FD15 session and collected blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of the carotid and brachial arteries with Yui acting as CMO.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans will be obtained at the same time points as well as through 5 years after landing as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Return To Service (RTS): EMU 3011 RTS activities continued today. Kelly verified successful installation of the Fan Pump Separator (FPS) when he performed visual water leakage inspection, structural gas leakage test at the maximum operating suit pressure, and a long-duration leak check. EMU data and video were downlinked to the ground for review to determine readiness of the EMU to support EVA operations.
 
On Board Training (OBT) Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Drill: The 43S crew reviewed procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency onboard ISS.  Emergency medical equipment was deployed and the crew practiced Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur.
 
Node 1 (N1) Galley Rack Prep: Kelly continued reorganizing N1 stowage in preparation for the Galley Rack arriving on HTV-5. Today’s activities focused on relocating infrequently used photo/TV hardware from N1 to Permanent Multi-purpose Module (PMM).
 

