
New Status:
InSPACE-3 Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg performed her first two test sessions of InSPACE-3  today.  InSPACE-3 obtains data on fluids containing ellipsoid-shaped particles that change the physical properties of the fluids in response to magnetic fields.  InSPACE-3 collects and records data on fluids containing ellipsoid-shaped particles that change the physical properties of the fluids in response to magnetic fields.  This investigation aims to provide information for a better understanding of the interplay of magnetic, surface, repulsion forces, and shape between particles in magnetically responsive fluids.  Technology developed through this investigation has potential to improve the ability to design structures, such as bridges and buildings, to better withstand earthquake forces.
 Extravehicular (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: FE-3 Cassidy completed post-EVA loop scrub maintenance requirements for EMUs 3015 and 3011. The activity included ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocide maintenance (iodination) of EMU and airlock cooling/water loops. Scrubbing of FE-5 Parmitano’s Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG) was not performed as ground teams plan on returning the LCVG on a later return vehicle to perform troubleshooting and water analysis. Cassidy video documented the procedure for ground analysis.
 Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE)-8 Bags Heat Sealing: Parmitano and Nyberg heat sealed the MISSE-8 bags for later return on Space-X (Sp-X)-3. MISSE-8, which is an external ISS payload retrieved on EVA 22, is a test bed for materials and computing elements. These materials and computing elements are being evaluated for the effects of atomic oxygen, ultraviolet, direct sunlight, radiation, and extremes of heat and cold. This experiment assists in the development and testing of new materials and computing elements that can better withstand the rigors of space environments. Results aim to provide a better understanding of the durability of various materials and computing elements when exposed to the space environment.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status:  Yesterday afternoon, the UPA shut down due to a fault as a result of high pressure in the system.  Data was downlinked for review by ground specialists.  Based on preliminary analysis, ground teams reviewed data from the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) as they worked through the fault tree and are currently working a forward plan.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Save Valve (ASV) 103 Fault:  Overnight, the Node 3 CDRA transitioned to stop approximately 51 seconds into a half cycle due to an ASV failing to reach the full position. The ASV and Node 3 CDRA were quickly recovered by the operations team, and Node 3 CDRA is operational.  Engineering specialists are reviewing the data.
Potential Conjunctions:  Ground controllers have been tracking Object 81908 with a Time of Closest Approach (TCA) of Saturday, August 3rd at 11:41 am CDT. Specialists tracked the object yesterday, and miss distances have continued to increase and stabilize. The current probability of collision based on analysis is zero; however. ground controllers will continue to track the object.  Object 37845, Breeze-M Tank Debris is also being tracked. TCA is Sunday, August 4th at 7:28 am CDT. The object is large and very well tracked and is classified as a low concern.

