
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Kelly and Kornienko continued their week of sleep logging.  Within fifteen minutes of wakeup, the crew answered questions from the SleepLog application on the Station Support Computer (SSC). Kornienko completed his Flight Day 132 Fine Motor Skills.  Kelly completed his first of three Journals sessions. Yui, with Kelly as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed his FD14 Sprint Ultrasound.

The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and    collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
In the Fine Motor Skills experiment crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
Yui configured video, Ultrasound 2 machine, and donned the calf and thigh reference guides.  He then performed thigh and calf scans with guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.

 
Plant Circumnutation and Its dependence on the Gravity Response (Plant Rotation): Yui removed Plant Rotation Sample 3 from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Incubator Unit 1-Gravity (1G) centrifuge. During this experiment run, rice plants underwent microgravity rotation first, then a 1G rotation.  Many species of climbing plants grow upward in a spiraling shape, a process known as circumnutation. Plant organs, such as stems, leaves, and roots also grow in a spiraling, helical shape. This spiraling process can take many forms, including very tight loops and broad curves. The Plant Rotation experiment verifies the hypothesis that this type of plant growth requires gravity.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R)Tool Stow: Lindgren stowed tools and hardware that were used during last week’s EMU 3011 FPS R&R. He organized the tools so they are ready for future R&R activities.
 
Node 1 (N1) Galley Rack Prep: Reorganization of N1 stowage in preparation for the Galley Rack arrival on HTV-5 continues. Today the crew trashed obsolete items and co-located crew provisions pantry items.
 
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Rack Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Inlet Flow Measurement: This morning Lindgren used the Velocicalc to measure the air flow rate into the OGS Rack AAA Inlet.  The purpose of this measurement was to ensure that sufficient airflow exists in the rack to allow deferral of the AAA inlet muffler filter block and flow straightener cleaning to allow higher priority maintenance tasks to be performed in the coming weeks.  Based on the Velocicalc data the air flow rate is lower than expected, ground teams are currently discussing the data.
 

