
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Canada 1 (C1) Image Transfer: Commander (CDR) Swanson transferred BCAT-C1 images, set the camera intervalometer and verified the camera was set up to take images of the BCAT-C1 samples. The sample contains a more viscous fluid which requires more mixing on-orbit than previous samples. BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses. BCAT-C1 studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products.
Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2): Swanson deployed eight bubble detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
Resist Tubule: Swanson retrieved resist tubule chambers from the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and injected water into the tubule chambers. Afterward, the chambers were reinserted into MELFI. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance which is a principal gravity response in plants and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst completed flame tests for the BASS-II investigation which examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity, and guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. Today, Gerst completed eight tests of seven previously burned samples made of fabric and acrylic. The tests were conducted at ambient ISS air. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Capillary Channel Flow (CCF) Preparation: FE-5 Wiseman reviewed a CCF On-Board Training (OBT) prior to gathering CCF hardware. Tomorrow, BASS-II will be removed from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and CCF will be installed in its place.
Circadian Rhythms: Over the weekend Gerst donned the Circadian Rhythms hardware to start a 36 hour data take. The main objective of the experiment is to get a better basic understanding of any alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. This data will provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Swanson removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides, which isolated the rack and allowed ground teams to start another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Extravehicular Activity Preparations: Swanson and Wiseman reviewed the Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software in preparation for Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) operations. They configured tools needed for EVA 27 and with assistance from Gerst, Swanson and Wiseman reviewed required steps to take if water in the helmet becomes an issue. Finally, they set up the Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On Board Trainer and reviewed operation of Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) ECWS and practiced EVA cuff checklist procedures.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Docking Preparations: Gerst and FE-1 Skvortsov performed a rendezvous and docking drill in preparation for ATV5 docking on August 12.
ATV Propulsion Drive Electronics PDE Status: An Off-nominal Operations Board (OOB) convened at ATV-Control Center  (ATV-CC) Saturday to review the PDE Chain 1 shutdown that occurred on July 30.  The ESA Engineering Support Team (EST) concluded that the cause of the automatic shutdown was a higher than expected voltage reading in the PDE avionics but that the PDE itself has full functionality. This morning, ATV-CC successfully re-integrated PDE1 in the chain and ATV is back in nominal configuration with 4 PDEs available.

