
Sarcolab-3:  With assistance from an operator, a USOS crewmember ingressed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) chair in the Columbus module, installed the Electromyograph and Percutaneous Electrical Stimulation (PEMS) device and adjusted pads and constraints for the Sarcolab-3 ankle protocol.  The operator then collected ultrasound images of the subject’s right leg during exercise activities. Ground experts are evaluating anomalies that occurred during the investigation that prevented completion of today’s session.  Later in the day a crewmember installed the mechanisms specific to the knee configuration for Sarcolab-3 operations tomorrow. The data collected for Sarcolab-3 will be compared to pre and post flight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss.  Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew replaced sample cartridges in the ELF, an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
NanoRacks Platforms 2 and 3: The crew installed NanoRacks Platform 2 and 3 in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to support investigation hardware arriving on SpaceX-12.  These NanoRack platforms are multipurpose research facilities that provide power and data transfer capabilities for NanoRacks Module investigations.
Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG):  The crew installed an iPEHG in Express Rack (ER) 4. The new iPEHG design corrects performance limitations often experienced by the older PEHGs. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday afternoon, Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 8 (WS8) to WS4. They then stowed Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2) and walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off MBS PDGF3 onto the Lab PDGF.

