
IMAX Camera Change-out and Cleaning: Lindgren swapped the IMAX C500 Digital Cinema camera body with an on-orbit spare, delivered on SpaceX-6.  He then cleaned debris from the 1DC Digital Single-Lens Reflex (DSLR) camera sensor. Both cameras were reassembled to operational configuration for resumption of imagery collection. The ISS provides an unparalleled perspective of how both natural and human forces shape planet Earth. IMAX Documentary Film (IMAX) aims to produce a three dimensional movie called A Perfect Planet, which uses ISS-based video and images to illustrate these impacts for audiences of all ages. IMAX also showcases NASA’s exploration efforts and highlights the ISS as a platform for scientific research and a stepping stone to deep space exploration.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations:  Today’s HRP operations included the continuation of Flight Day-7 (FD7) Salivary Marker for Yui (blood and saliva collections) and FD7 Microbiome for Lindgren (saliva collections).  Both Yui and Lindgren also have their FD13 Cognition sessions.  For cognition, the crew powered on the Human Research Facility (HRF) laptop, launched the Cognition application, and completed the Cognition test which includes pre-test questions and an array of cognitive tests with performance feedback.


The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Salivary Markers samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.

 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Return To Service (RTS): The crew performed loop scrubs of EMUs 3005 and 3011 and collected cooling loop water samples. A series of checkout activities for EMU 3011 to verify performance of the new Fan/Pump/Separator (FPS) that was installed last week was also completed. Initial startup of the new FPS was nominal with no issues. The crew also completed visual water leakage inspections, a structural gas leakage test at the maximum operating suit pressure, and a long-duration leak check. EMU 3011 Return to Service activities are scheduled to continue tomorrow.
 
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-5 Preparations: Yui assembled HTV Hardware Comm and Panel (HCP) in the Japanese Experiment Module Pressurized Module (JPM). He also routed HCP power/data cables from the JPM to the Cupola and set HCP in the vicinity of Cupola Remote Work Station (RWS).
 

