
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst conducted flame tests for the BASS-II investigation which examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Cardio Ox Sample Collection: Gerst collected blood for his Flight Day (FD) 60 day session for the Cardio Ox investigation. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Operations:  Commander (CDR) Swanson performed this routine activity to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS by taking sound level readings. The data was downlinked to the ground for analysis.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Swanson and Wiseman continued preparations for planned EVAs in August. Today they took baseline measurements for on-orbit fit verification of their Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs). Swanson completed Airlock unstow and gathered US EVA hardware that will be used during Russian EVA 39 and US EVAs 27 and 28. Gerst ingressed the Zenith 1 (Z1) dome and retrieved the Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) for EVA 27. 

