
Amyloid Aggregation: The crew activated and mixed the appropriate kits followed by incubation and placement into cold stowage. The aim of this investigation is to assess if amyloid fibrils aggregation is affected by microgravity to identify a possible professional risk of astronauts spending long periods on board the ISS. Furthermore, since protein accumulation is a predominant feature of many neurodegenerative diseases, a deeper comprehension of mechanism underlying peptides aggregation could be a crucial goal in neuroscience research.
Biofabrication Facility:  To address recently identified BFF issues, the crew removed the SmartPump cover, removed the Syringe Bracket Assembly, manually adjusted the union collar, inspected and cleaned the SmartPump QDs, and re-installed the Syringe Bracket Assembly and SmartPump cover. The ground team reported the activity appeared to have been successful and will perform commanding to verify.  Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe. However, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a stepping stone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
HXP1 Item Exchange: The crew performed the sample exchange for the external JAXA Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) experiment platform.  Some of the samples removed will be returned on SpX-18. The ExHAM will be passed through the JEM Airlock later this week and returned to its external location. Taking advantage of Kibo’s unique function of having both an airlock and a robotic arm among modules on the ISS, the ExHAM facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s Exposed Facility (EF).
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites – Zero Robotics (SPHERES ZR) Dry Run: Due to issues with video and locating the appropriate batteries, the dry run session could not be performed. Ground teams will attempt to reschedule the dry run for Thursday so the testing can be completed prior to the formal 2019 middle school competition on Friday. Each Zero Robotics session consists of 3 parts:  1) The unit test looks at the ability to run the main code of the session; 2) The dry run tests various aspects of the actual competition; 3) The actual Zero Robotics science session.  The premise of this ZR session is for one SPHERES satellite to retrieve a damaged SPHERES satellite from a virtual debris field in low Earth orbit. ZR allows middle school and high school students develop code to achieve the goals of the competition. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
International Docking Adapter (IDA)3 Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the IDA3 EVA currently planned for no earlier than August 21, the crew completed the following:

On-orbit Fit Verification (OFV) Check: The crew worked off the Task List and took measurements of FE-9 to determine on orbit growth.
EVA suit intravehicular (IV) Review: The IV crew reviewed reminders, emergency briefing, helpful tips and procedures used during EVA prep. 

Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Direct Drive Test: The Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite (WS) 7 to WS 6 to perform the SSRMS Direct Drive test of all three joints. The test is ongoing

