
Fluid Shifts Operations In the Service Module: With ground team assistance, crewmembers continued supporting Fluid Shifts Imaging exams that began yesterday by configuring the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) hardware before completing a DPOAE test, OCT exam, and a Tonometry exam. The purpose of this investigation is to characterize the space flight-induced fluid shift, including intra- and extravascular shifts, intra- and extracellular shifts, changes in total body water and lower vs. upper body shifts. Noninvasive techniques are used to assess arterial and venous dimensions and flow parameters, ocular pressure and structure, and changes in intracranial pressure. Lower body negative pressure is being investigated for its ability to mitigate some of the effects of the space flight-induced fluid shift. Results from this investigation are expected to help define the causes of the ocular structure and vision changes associated with long duration space flight, and assist in the development of countermeasures.
NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) and Gumstix Installation: The NREP was prepared for installation on the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table.  During the NREP assembly, the NanoRacks-Gumstix experiment was installed onto the NREP.  Two crewmembers installed NREP on JEMAL Slide Table. One crewmember held NREP in place to keep the capture cones aligned with the NREP receptacles and the other operated the capture mechanism.  The Slide Table was then retracted from the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) side into the JEMAL and the inner hatch was closed. The NanoRacks External Platform represents the first external commercial research capability for the testing of scientific investigations, sensors, and electronic components in space.  The NanoRacks External Platform will be installed on a payload required basis on the outside of the ISS on the JEM External Facility (JEM-EF).  The NanoRacks-Evaluation of Gumstix Performance in Low-Earth Orbit (NanoRacks-Gumstix) investigation tests small computers called Gumstix modules, which are based on open-source software, as an alternative off-the-shelf option for use in space. The investigation studies whether the Gumstix microprocessors can withstand the radiation environment on board the ISS.  The NREP will be deployed from the JEMAL and installed on the JEM-EF tomorrow. 
Multi-Omics Operations:  The crew supported the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics investigation by collecting saliva samples and inserting them into a Box Module in the Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
Space Headaches: The crew completed the European Space Agency (ESA) Space Headaches questionnaire to provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crew members which can influence performance during a space mission.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of life onboard ISS, providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuration: In preparation for the EVA currently planned for August 19, the crew gathered and configured required tools.

