
Circadian Rhythms: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst removed the Circadian Rhythms hardware to end a 36 hour data take and downloaded the data to the ground for analysis. The main objective of the experiment is to get a better basic understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. This data will provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions. 
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II (BASS) Stow/Capillary Channel Flow (CCF) Installation: Gerst removed BASS-II from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and stowed it, then FE-5 Wiseman installed the CCF hardware into the MSG, connected cables, and configured the MSG video system. Ground teams will now be able to run the investigation from the ground without crew involvement. Capillary flow is the natural wicking of fluid between narrow channels in the opposite direction of gravity. Tree roots are one example of a capillary system, drawing water up from the soil. By increasing understanding of capillary flow in the absence of gravity, the CCF experiment helps scientists find new ways to move liquids in space. Capillary systems do not require pumps or moving parts, which reduces their cost, weight, and complexity.
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Delay: Swanson and Wiseman completed Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) On-Board Training (OBT), EVA procedures review and follow up conference with ground teams. Later in the day, due to an issue discovered on the ground with Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Batteries (LLBs), teams were directed to stand down on preparation for US EVAs 27 and 28 scheduled this month.  The EVAs will be delayed until after new LLBs are flown, currently scheduled for SpX-4.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) Rendezvous and Docking Simulator Proficiency 1: Gerst and FE-1 Skvortsov completed this training in preparation for ATV-5 docking planned for August 12. Following the activity, they discussed results in a conference with ground teams. 

