
Payloads:
Food Physiology: The crew participated in a Food Physiology diet briefing with the science team on the ground. The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Immunity Assay: Various biological samples were collected and processed in support of the multi-day experiment session. The experiment operations will be performed through Friday. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
ISS Ham Pass: A Ham pass was conducted with Karasuyama Residents Center, Setagaya, Japan. The Karasuyama Residents Center is public facility where local residents jointly manage various social education and cultural events. This Center is used by many children (kindergarten, elementary school and junior high school). Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the MSL furnace area and exchanged the calibration Sample Cartridge Assemblies (SCAs) for the Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductor-C4 (GTCS-C4) SCA. GTCS grows semiconductor crystals based on zinc selenide (ZnSe) compounds in microgravity. ZnSe-based crystals have potential applications for high-power lasers operating in infrared wavelengths. The investigation compares structural quality of crystals grown on Earth and in microgravity to establish how gravity-driven fluid flows contribute to formation of various types of crystalline defects.
Space Health (SH): The Bio-Monitor sensor garment was worn for the second day of the 48-hr science session. For efficiency, a Cardiobreath session will be combined with the Space Health session since both experiments use the Bio-Monitor system. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight.
Zero-Robotics (ZR): The crew assisted with a ZR Finals competition. In the competition, the crew gave Astrobee a series of hand gestures, Astrobee responded by moving to defined locations in a virtual Lunar environment, and then performed various maneuvers. For Astrobee ZR, students write software to control one of the space station’s Astrobee free-flying robots. The first several rounds of the competition, co-led by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Innovation Learning Center, and many collaborators, use an online simulation. Finalists have their code downloaded by NASA to the Astrobee platform and observe its performance. The experience helps inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, and explorers.
Zero T2: An Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session was performed on the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating, or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill:  Today, due to the recent discovery of improperly treated EDVs, the crew performed activities for two Recycle Tank Drains in order to remove off-nominal fluid within UPA. The first drain removed the off-nominal fluid and the second will fill the system with a pretreat and water solution that was provided by the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC). The goal is to flush cleaner fluid through UPA. The crew set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
Cygnus Arrival Preparations: In preparation for the arrival of NG-19 tomorrow morning, the crew completed a Portable Computer System (PCS) Laptop Relocation for the Airlock to the LAB. This hardware will provide command redundancy during NG-19 operations. They also completed Cygnus cargo transfer review and a ground conference. Additionally, the ground completed a camera calibration data transfer from the LAB robotics workstation to the Cupola robotics workstation to complete setup prior to the crew’s Cygnus capture and berthing operations.
