
Payloads
Droplet Formation Study (DFS):  The crew performed the setup and initiation of recording for additional runs of the DFS investigation.  Data will be archived by an alternate method which will actually result in a quicker delivery time to the experiment team.  Droplet Formation Studies in Microgravity (Droplet Formation Study, or more simply DFS) evaluates water droplet formation and water flow of Delta Faucet’s H2O kinetic shower head technology.  To conserve water, flow rates in shower devices have been reduced, but this lower flow rate also reduces the effectiveness of these devices and often causes consumers to take longer showers, undermining the goal of using less water. Gravity’s full effects on formation of water droplet size are unknown, and research in microgravity could help improve the technology, creating better performance and improved user experience while conserving water and energy.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The crew set up the JWRS on the work bench and performed the steps necessary to replace pump P-01.  The Demonstration of JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS) generates potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and waste water were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Systems
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: Today the crew performed their monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screening tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking and spatial processing.
EHS Benzene Chip Measurement System (CMS) Operations:  As part of the continued benzene investigation, the crew took two benzene measurements in the Lab today with the CMS reader. Results were provided to the ground. Readings to date have been below detectable limits. The crew will continue to take samples in the LAB every other day and the frequency may be altered based on real-time indications.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Operations:  Today, the ISS crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water.  The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.

