
Payloads
Food Acceptability:  Using the data collection tool on an available Station Support Computer (SSC), the crew completed their Food Acceptability surveys.  This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4):  The crew performed the steps necessary to initiate experiment runs, with a goal of working through repeat runs 1-4. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Systems
Airlock Smoke Detector Cleaning: The crew inspected and successfully cleaned the Airlock smoke detector.  This smoke detector was last cleaned in 2016.  Smoke Detectors sample the atmosphere for particles that might correspond to smoke from a fire. The smoke detectors sample the atmosphere within racks and in the open cabin and determine the amount of smoke using a light sensing sampling chamber or probe and rely on forced airflow to propagate any smoke particles that may be present in the atmosphere.
Cygnus Rendezvous Training: FE-15 and FE-17 completed on-board training in preparation for the upcoming NG-16 mission.  The crew used the Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) to practice for the arrival of Cygnus.  NG-16 is scheduled to launch on August 10th.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew R&R’d the Pre-Treat Tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Recycle Tank: The crew R&Rd the UPA recycle tank as part of nominal scheduled maintenance.  The UPA produces distillate from a mixture of pretreated urine, urine flush water, and Crew Health Care System waste water. Distillate can then be processed by the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) to produce iodinated water.

