ISS On-Orbit Status 08/01/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday --- Crew rest day.
 
  FE-1 Mike Barratt began the second day of his new session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, after the 8-hr overnight fast.  This was an all-day session of urine sample collections for both several times until termination tomorrow after 24 hrs.  For FE-2 Tim Kopra, his 24-hr urine collection for the NUTRITION protocol closed out today.  His next NUTRITION w/Repository activity will be the FD30 session.     [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  The six-member crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, Padalka &amp; Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9), plus dust filter replacement in the FGB.
 
  At ~9:06am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  The crew spent their free time with several VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activities of their choice:
 <?if !supportLists?>·         <?endif?>Barratt &amp; DeWinne, who had chosen CCISS (Cardiovascular &amp; Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS) for their VolSci option, started out by setting up the hardware, started out by changing out the UltraBay drive of the HRF2 (Human Research Facility 2) PC2 laptop.  Mike then began his 24-hr. on-orbit session with the CCISS experiment (with Frank acting as operator and photographer) by donning the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) and the CBPD (Continuous Blood Pressure Device), performing the Baro Study, and starting the 24-hr passive heart rate data collection.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card, with the HRF (Human Research Facility) rack laptop for control.  Equipment doffing and stowage wrapped up the activity.    [CCISS studies the effects of long-duration spaceflight on crewmembers' heart functions and their blood vessels that supply the brain (= “cerebrovascular”).  Learning more about the changes in cardiovascular &amp; cerebrovascular systems in zero-G could lead to specific countermeasures that might better protect future space travelers.  For the Baro study of CCIS, heart rate and blood pressure are being recorded for resting and timed breathing for 5 min, with no caffeine or food (water is acceptable) allowed two hours before the start of the Baro Study and no exercise prior to the Baro Study.]
 <?if !supportLists?>·         <?endif?>Afterwards, DeWinne performed two runs of the InSPACE-2 experiment, activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and powering on the hardware, as well as the MSG video cameras and monitor.  Next, the optical alignment of the cameras was verified and the MSG video recorders were configured. Then, Frank completed sessions #50 &amp;#59, switching the magnetic field to “steady” mode, sweeping and focusing the field of view, and then removing &amp; stowing video tapes from the MSG video recorders and inserting new blank tapes.  Later, the hardware was deactivated, the A31p turned off, and the gear stowed.     [The purpose of the InSPACE-2 experiment is to obtain data on fluids that change properties in response to magnetic fields.  Observations of the microscopic structures will yield a better understanding of the interplay of magnetic, surface and repulsion forces between structures in magnetorheological (MR) fluids (fluids that change properties under the influence of an applied magnetic field).]
 
  FE-4 Thirsk performed the regular service on the WPA (Water Processor Assembly), first offloading the WPA from WRS (Water Recovery System) Rack 1 into a CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine) with the common H<sub>2</sub>O transfer hose (which took about 23 min) from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary Port, then flushing the system.
 
  Thirsk also completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
  In Node-2, DeWinne disassembled the used LiOH (Lithium Hydroxide) canister, used for absorbing CO<sub>2</sub> (Carbon Dioxide), and stowed it away.
 
  Mike Barratt filled out his regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  Roman Romanenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers],
 
  Gennady Padalka made preparations for another run of the Russian/German TEKh-20 Plasma Crystal-3 Plus (PK-3+) experiment payload, the second of Expedition 20, by unstowing the hardware in the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment), installing it in the SM for operation and photographing the setup.  The images were downlinked to TsUP/Moscow via OCA for inspection, and the CDR performed the initial leak check of the PK-3 Electronics Box before its evacuation.  More work to come tomorrow.    [The experiment is performed on plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside a vacuum work chamber.  Main objective is to obtain a homogeneous plasma dust cloud at various pressures and particle quantities with or without superimposition of an LF (low frequency) harmonic electrical field.  The experiment is conducted in automated mode.  PK-3+ has more advanced hardware and software than the previously used Russian PKE-Nefedov payload.]
 
  At ~4:25am EDT, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3). 
 
  Later, Mike transferred the exercise data files to the for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
  
 Reboost Update:    Today the ISS performed a nominal reboost using the Progress 34P R&amp;D thrusters.  The purpose of the reboost was to set up phasing for STS-128/17A.  TIG (Time of Ignition):  4:15am EDT.  Burn duration: 7m 38s.  Delta-V: 1.27 m/s (4.17 ft/s); mean altitude increase: 2.2 km (1.2 nmi.)
 
 
