
Fluid Shifts Operations in the Service Module: With ground team assistance, Russian and USOS crew members supported Fluid Shifts Imaging exams by conducting the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) exam, Ultrasound scans, the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) tests, and a Tonometry exam. The purpose of this investigation is to characterize the space flight-induced fluid shift, including intra- and extravascular shifts, intra- and extracellular shifts, changes in total body water and lower vs. upper body shifts. Results from this investigation are expected to help define the causes of the ocular structure and vision changes associated with long duration space flight, and assist in the development of countermeasures.
Mouse Epigenetics Cage Unit Maintenance: Today, the Mouse Habitat Unit #3 was cleaned, and the crew exchanged filters and collected samples.  The food cartridges were exchanged and the MHU was returned to its stowage location The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of life onboard ISS, providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Dose Tracker: The Dose Tracker app was configured and the crewmember completed entries for medication tracking on an iPad. This investigation documents the medication usage of crewmembers before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed the following in preparation for the IDA2 EVA planned on August 19:

Prepared the Equipment Lock (EL), Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) and ancillary hardware to support EVA prep activities.
Verified that the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) is functional.
Continued configuring required tools.


