
Sarcolab-3:  With assistance from an operator, a Russian crewmember ingressed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) chair in the Columbus module, installed the Electromyograph and Percutaneous Electrical Stimulation (PEMS) device and adjusted pads and constraints for the Sarcolab-3 ankle protocol.  The operator then collected ultrasound images of the subject’s right leg. The data collected for Sarcolab-3 will be compared to pre and postflight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss.  Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The crew completed the final day of bone scans and sampling for RR-5.  Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
MagVector:  The crew performed closeout and cleanup activities for science run 10 of MagVector.  The European Space Agency (ESA) MagVector investigation studies how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future International Space Station experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general – the backbone of our technology.
Space Headaches:  The 51 Soyuz (51S) USOS crewmembers continued filling out daily questionnaires for the ESA Space Headaches investigation today. The questionnaires are used during the first week of the USOS crewmember’s arrival at the ISS. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire. The investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration and biocidal maintenance on EMUs 3006 and 3008 and Airlock cooling water loops. A water sample was taken for conductivity testing.
On Board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: The 51S crew completed this OBT to review the emergency equipment and configuration of the ISS.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last evening, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) outboard of the Port Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) to support troubleshooting of the P6 Long Spacer outboard spare Pump Flow Control Subassembly (PFCS). After de-mating the PFCS’s two Fluid Quick Disconnect Couplings (FQDCs) and unfastening its tie-down bolt, SPDM Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism 1 (OTCM1) unfastened its H4 bolt to electrically de-mated the PFCS from P6.  The Remote Power Controller for this PFCS was then closed to see if it would trip, which it did not.  After the RPC had been re-opened, OTCM1 re-mated the PFCS. The RPC was then closed again and it tripped with a true overcurrent.  OTCM1 re-fastened the PFCS tie-down bolt and then the SSRMS and SPDM were maneuvered back inboard of the SARJ and configured for the Mobile Transporter translation from Work Site (WS) 8 to WS4 scheduled later today. 

