ISS On-Orbit Status 08/08/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday --- Crew rest day.
 
  FE-2 Timothy Kopra began the first day of his FD30 session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, focusing today on the blood draw.  Mike Barratt assisted in the phlebotomy from an arm vein.  Tim also started his 24-hr urine collections.   [After the phlebotomy, Tim’s samples were first allowed to coagulate in the Repository for 20-30 minutes, then spun in the HRF RC (Human Research Facility/Refrigerated Centrifuge) and finally placed in MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  No thruster activity was allowed during the blood drawing.  The RC was later powered off after a temperature reset to limit wear on the compressor, and cleaned.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  The six-member crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, Padalka &amp; Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9), plus dust filter replacement in the FGB.
 
  The CDR also conducted the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM and FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
  At ~9:06am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  The crew spent their free time with several VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activities of their choice:
 
 <ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Mike Barratt had ~1.5 hrs      for taking special photographic shots with the D2X digital cameras for      starting Photosynth mapping in the FGB, Lab, Node-1, Node-2, Airlock,      Columbus, Kibo JPM and JLP.   [Photosynth is a Microsoft-developed      process to turn series of photos into 3-D panoramic vistas.       Photosynth allows everyone (except Mac users) to create unique panoramas      or "synths" using their own photos.  Photosynth was already      used by NASA last year for RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) photography of the      Orbiter underside.  It is being used to create a 3-D rendering of the      ISS's interior for training purposes, so astronauts familiarize themselves      with their new home before they get there.]</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Mike &amp; Tim Kopra      conducted another LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable      Test System) Phase 1 surface swabbing session using only the LAL (Limulus amebocyte lysate)      cartridges.   [After today, there      are only have eight sessions remaining to complete the planned science      requirements.]</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Barratt also supported the      ground by readying the FCF (Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility) for ground      commanding on RPC (Remote Power Controller), opening the Upper Rack Door,      closing two bottle valves, opening four pressure relief valves, later      going back into the rack to re-open the two bottle valves and closing the      door.    [Mike’s activities were critical for a successful      calibration of the CIR FOMA (Combustion Integrated Rack Fuel/Oxidizer      Management Assembly by the ground).]</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Bob Thirsk, with Tim Kopra      assisting, conducted (and video-recorded) an EPO (Educational Program      Operation) demonstration on recycling.</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Frank DeWinne performed      another two runs of the InSPACE-2 experiment, activating the MSG      (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and powering on the hardware, as well as      the MSG video cameras and monitor.  Next, the optical alignment of      the cameras was verified and the MSG video recorders were configured.      Then, Frank completed sessions #56 &amp;#57, switching the magnetic field      to “steady” mode, sweeping and focusing the field of view, and      then removing &amp; stowing video tapes from the MSG video recorders and      inserting new blank tapes.  Later, the hardware was deactivated, the      A31p turned off, and the gear stowed.    [The purpose of      the InSPACE-2 experiment is to obtain data on fluids that change properties      in response to magnetic fields.  Observations of the microscopic      structures will yield a better understanding of the interplay of magnetic,      surface and repulsion forces between structures in magnetorheological (MR)      fluids (fluids that change properties under the influence of an applied      magnetic field).  These runs are allowing researchers to better      understand the kinetics of formation of chain-like aggregates over longer      times (2+ hrs) than were achieved in the initial runs of InSPACE-2 during      Increment 16.]</li> </ul> 
  Mike Barratt started the first day of his first six-day SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) session, which entails a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings in two session blocks.     [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Mike will have to eat special diet (Session 1: High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level and Session 2: Low salt diet).  Solo Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are being logged on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  SOLO, an ESA/German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Blood samples are taken with the PCBA.  Background:  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
  In the A/L (Airlock), Kopra terminated the regeneration process on two METOX (Metal Oxide) CO<sub>2</sub> absorption canisters (#0005 &amp; #0022) from the last EVAs.
 
  Romanenko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Working in the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), DeWinne rebooted all active PWS (Portable Workstation) laptops.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR). 
  
  Later, Bob Thirsk transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 WHC Pretreat Tank Troubleshooting: Yesterday, after an automatic refilling of the flush water tank of the Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment (the US toilet), the “Bad Pretreat” LED (Light Emitting Diode) indicator was illuminated.  Mike Barratt performed troubleshooting steps to recover the WHC including verifying valve position and performing a functionality test.  Later, after performing multiple flushes, the error was cleared and the crew was Go for nominal WHC use.  Specialists believe the problem was air bubbles in the line that can happen after the automatic fill of the flush water tank.
 
 
