
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Canada 1 (C1) Image Transfer: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman homogenized cuvette samples and took photos after mixing. He then set up the camera intervalometer. The BCAT-C1 sample contains a more viscous fluid, which requires more mixing on-orbit than previous samples. BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses. BCAT-C1 studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products.
Robonaut Mobility Upgrades: Commander (CDR) Swanson installed new boards and processors into Robonaut, installed cables, and established communication connections. These upgrades are to support the installation of the Robonaut legs. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Multi-Purpose End-to-End Robotic Operations Network (METERON)-Operations and Communications (OpsCom) 2 Test:  FE-6 Gerst executed a test between the METERON software on the ISS and a Eurobot Ground Prototype on the ground. One of the objectives of METERON-OpsCom 2 is to demonstrated control of a robot on a planetary surface by a human in an orbiting spacecraft.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) Rendezvous and Docking Simulator Proficiency 2:  Gerst and FE-1 Skvortsov performed this training in preparation for ATV-5 docking planned for August 12. Following the activity, they discussed results in a conference with ground teams. They completed the first training session on Tuesday.
Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R) Preparation:  Yesterday Wiseman placed EMU 3011 on the forward EMU Don/Doff Assembly (EDDA) and reviewed R&R procedures. Today he gathered tools required for the task planned for later this month.
Cygnus Cargo Transfer Operations: Wiseman and Gerst continued transferring items to be trashed to the Cygnus vehicle.

