
Payloads
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) humidifier installation:  The crew installed the CBEF Incubator Unit (IU) humidifier on the micro-gravity CBEF IU.  The Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Food Physiology:  The crew supported a diet briefing with the Food Physiology investigation team.  The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4):  The crew performed the steps necessary to initiate experiment runs, with a goal of working through repeat runs 5-8. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL3) unit relocate:  The SABL3 unit was relocated from EXPRESS rack 8 to EXPRESS rack 3.  The SABL supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28vdc and 5vdc power supplies for investigation use.
Systems
Preparation for NG-16: The crew began preparing for the arrival of NG-16.  They gathered the Node1 Nadir Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) and deployed and checked out the centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) at Node 1 Nadir to support Common Berthing mechanism (CBM) mating operations.  NG-16 is scheduled to launch on August 10th.
EXPRESS Rack-11B (ER-11B) Knee-Brace Attachment Replacement (K-BAR) Installation: The crew repaired the damaged internal threads for the upper, right K-BAR receptacle on ER-11B at LAB1P4 using the Tap & Die Kit and then installed the upper, right K-BAR.  A K-BAR is a device that attaches to the rack upper attach mechanism to allow easy rotation of a rack without the use of tools.
USOS EVA preparation: The crew began preparing for the upcoming 4A ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep EVA.  The crew gathered tools and performed an inspection of the safety tethers, waist tethers, and D-Ring extenders.  The USOS EVA is currently planned for August 25th.

