
New Status:
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-1: FE-6 Nyberg mixed the 6th of 10 wells for the ACE-1 experiment.  ACE-1 is the first in a series of microscopic imaging investigations of materials which contain small colloidal particles which have the specific characteristic of remaining evenly dispersed and distributed within the material. This investigation takes advantage of the unique environment onboard the ISS to separate the effects induced by Earth’s gravity to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within these colloidal materials. Engineering, manipulation and the fundamental understanding of materials of this nature potentially enhances our ability to produce, store, and manipulate materials which rely on similar physical properties. The experiment uses the Fluids Integrated Rack facility which is a complementary fluid physics research facility designed to host investigations in areas such as colloids, gels, bubbles, wetting and capillary action, and phase changes, including boiling and cooling.
 
Spheres Zero Robotics (ZR):  Cassidy and Nyberg performed a practice run of the Spheres-ZR investigation planned for next Tuesday when middle school students will participate in the competition with real time video and audio of the runs from the ISS.  SPHERES-ZR investigation establishes an opportunity for students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: Following yesterday’s Remove and Replace (R&R) of the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA), ground controllers commanded the UPA to standby mode and later commanded the UPA to perform a process cycle.  All operations were nominal.
 
Periodic Fitness Evaluation (PFE): Nyberg was scheduled to perform a PFE, however the adapters necessary to connect the new Blood Pressure-Electrocardiogram (BP/ECG) device to the SSC could not be found. The crew swapped the new BP/ECG cabling with old cabling with no success. Ground teams are investigating root cause for the connection issues as well as the location of the necessary adapters.
 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-4 Preparations and Status: Parmitano gathered the necessary equipment for HTV vestibule outfitting, needed following the grapple and berthing of HTV-4 scheduled for Friday, August 9.  Today, HTV-4 is performing a series of four maneuvers (Plane Change Maneuvers and Height Adjustment Maneuvers) raising the altitude from approximately 125 km below the ISS to approximately 28 km below ISS.  Through orbital mechanics, HTV4 is closing in on ISS, and following the burns will be approximately 4500 km behind the ISS and closing at 300 km per orbit.
 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-3: Sample 5 is reacting slower than expected so the experiment has been extended for 3 weeks in order for scientists to observe the complete reaction. Depending on their relative distances and energies with respect one another, atoms and molecules organize themselves to form gases, liquids, and solids. BCAT-3-4-CP studies the critical point of these systems, which is defined where gases and liquids no longer exist as separate entities and a new state of matter forms which is known as the critical point. The application of this experiment in the near term is to enhance the shelf life of everyday products and in the longer term, the development of revolutionary materials for electronics and medicine.
 

