
Payloads:
Astrobee: The Perching Arm hardware was installed onto the Astrobee flyer (Bumble) in preparation for the Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 Rehearsal. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4: Targets were printed for the Kibo Robot Programming Challenge 4 Technical Rehearsal. Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 is an educational competition for students in the Asia-Pacific region. The students are tasked to create a program that demonstrates accurate control of Astrobee. The Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 is planned for September.
Nanoracks-LEONIDAS (LEO-TM N-REP ISS Demonstration Advanced Sensor): Module-14 (Nanoracks-LEONIDAS) was mounted to the NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) Experiment Plate and reinstalled back on the JEM Airlock. Nanoracks-LEONIDAS explores design of low-Earth orbit satellites to perform portions of the Department of Energy mission. The investigation collects data on various backgrounds (local time of day, glint, clouds, etc.) to support development of a machine learning algorithm. NanoRacks NREP offers a more reliable, higher fidelity, and less expensive testing and development platform than attempting to model the sensor using software.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA)-ugGA: Ampoule sample #4 was installed into the SUBSA thermal chamber. Examination of the Multi-physical Properties of Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (SUBSA-ugGA) seeks to create a graphene aerogel on the ISS. Microgravity is expected to alleviate effects of Earth’s gravity, such as agglomeration, sedimentation, and thermal convection, and enable production of a superior, uniform material structure. This research could lay the groundwork for the engineering of bulk quantities of graphene aerogel with exceptional physical properties for applications in power storage, environmental protection, and chemical sensing.
StemCellEX-H Pathfinder: Frozen sample vials were transferred from the foam holder into the vial return bag then reinserted into Cold Stowage. Hematopoietic Stem Cell Expansion in Space: Pathfinder Investigation (StemCellEX-H Pathfinder) tests methods for producing human hematopoietic stem cells in space. Hematopoietic stem cells give rise to blood and immune cells and have potential as treatments for patients with blood diseases and cancers. Producing them in space could lead to the ability to produce greater numbers of stem cells with superior attributes for clinical use than is currently possible on the ground.
Systems:
Airlock Stowage Platform (ASP) Replacement: Today, the crew continued a multi-day operation to replace the ASP with the new Airlock Overhead Stowage Platform. After accessing the rack location, the crew uninstalled the legacy ASP, transferred the legacy ASP to NG-19 for disposal, installed the new stowage platform at the A/L1O1 location, aligned the closeout panel at A/L1O0, and installed overhead hampers, access doors, and panels. The older Stowage Platform is being replaced in order to increase stowage volume in the Airlock.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) EVA Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) Charger 1 Installation:
Today, the crew installed a new EBOT Charger and successfully installed Li-Ion Batteries for charging. The crew completed this task by un-powering two Chargers and Power Supply Assemblies (PSAs), removed stowage and closeout panels for A/L1F1 rack rotation, removed CTB Half Divider, rotated A/L1F1 rack down, removed the rear access panel, and temporarily rotated rack up to prepare for Charger 1 installation. Then, the crew verified the new charger’s functionality by installing batteries and initiating an autocycle on Charger 1. The EBOT system charges and maintains batteries that are made of the Li-Ion chemistry and addresses new technology compatibility and aging hardware concerns.
IFM Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Filter Hose Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew conducted routine maintenance to R&R the WHC Urine Filter Hose. During the hardware R&R, the crew inspected both sides of the fluid interface between the Urine Valve Block and the Urine Filter Hose for debris which may have been caught and accumulated. This maintenance is required to protect WHC system performance from complications of filter loading once the filter hose has reached the end of its operational life.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
