ISS On-Orbit Status 08/11/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off duty. 
 
At wakeup, Gennady Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Upon wakeup, FE-3 Acaba, FE-5 Williams &amp; FE-6 Hoshide completed their weekly post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, the 28<sup>th</sup> for Joe, the 7<sup>th</sup> for Suni &amp; Aki.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Padalka, Revin, Acaba, Malenchenko, Williams &amp; Hoshide joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Sergei, Yuri &amp; Gennady also completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP), and the SKV air conditioner in the SM.
 
Williams had Day 3 of her 2<sup>nd</sup> (FD30) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period after start of collections.  After recording her diet input today, Sunita broke out the equipment for the associated urine collections for pH value, beginning tomorrow, followed by the blood sampling on Monday (8/13).       [For the Pro K protocol, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.  Background on pH: In chemistry, pH (Potential Hydrogen) is a measure of the acidity or basicity of a watery solution.  Pure water is neutral, with a pH close to 7.0 at 25 degC.  Solutions with a pH less than 7 are “acidic” and solutions with a pH greater than 7 are “basic” or “alkaline”.  pH measurements are important in medicine, biology, chemistry, agriculture, forestry, food science, environmental science, oceanography, civil engineers and many others.]
 
Padalka performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
In COL, Sunita reached midpoint at about 1:00pm EDT for her on-going 2<sup>nd</sup> Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) assessment, after which she began the second 24h data collection period, with Makita batteries swapped and recharged during the day.       [For the second 24 hr period, the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  (ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.)]
 
After retrieving the 4 HiMassSEE (Spacecraft Single Event Environments at High Shielding Mass) kits from Lab stowage, Akihiko posed with their contents for photographs taken by Joe Acaba for historical documentation.       [Aki removed the kits from their stowage, fastened them with Velcro in specific lockers and had each installed kit photographed by Joe, restowing the locker contents afterwards.  HiMassSEE measures space radiation interactions with spacecraft structure &amp; shielding using several passive track detector technologies to provide a more accurate definition of ISS payload accommodation, characterizing the combined primary &amp; secondary ionizing radiation environments in the high shielding mass environment on board the station. It also strives to support the selection and verification of avionics and materials through the precise description of nuclear reactions induced by secondary particle showers inside the ISS.  The median shielding mass, where the HiMassSEE experiment is located, is estimated to be between 20 and 50 g/cm2 Aluminum (Al) equivalents.  One of the major role's of the experiment is to determine the accuracy of some of the prediction models used on board.  HiMassSEE also provides flight demonstration of recently developed FNTDs (Fluorescence Nuclear Track Detectors).  The advanced materials that are studied for radiation damage are nonvolatile ferroelectric RAM, graphene film nanoelectronic materials, chalcogenide RAM, magneto resistive RAM, rare Earth element vanadate Quantum Dots, and MOS (metal oxide semiconductor) flash memory.]
 
Acaba &amp; Hoshide filled out their standard FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MDLT (Medical Laptop).  It was Joe’s 10<sup>th</sup>, Aki’s 3<sup>rd</sup>.        [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MDLT software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
Joe again had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC.   [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
FE-5 &amp; FE-6 conducted their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Aki at ~11:40am, Suni at ~2:55pm EDT.
 
At ~8:45am EDT, the entire crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~10:15am, Yuri („Yura“), Sergey &amp; Gennady (“Ghena”) engaged in the monthly PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos (Russian Space) Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.       [“At the end of July-August you saw off and welcomed Russian and Japanese cargo vehicles.  Progress M-16M became the first resupply vehicle to reach ISS per new plan just in 6 hours.  It delivered 2.6 tons of cargo to the ISS.       Which ones were the most anticipated?  Did you find any hidden surprises?  What hardware was delivered on the vehicles?  Unpacking cargo vehicles requires certain skills.  Can it be mechanized?  How do you proceed? How much time do you spend on it?  Do you have a special procedure? Or do you act based on circumstances?  Gennady and Yury, there is a little more than a week left before your EVA.  How do you prepare for it?  Please tell us what you have to do on the surface of ISS.  What are your objectives?  What will Sergey Revin be doing during your space walk?”]
 
At ~11:40am, Joe Acaba activated the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) routing to downlink the recording of his CFE VG2 (Capillary Flow Experiments / Vane Gap 2) experiment session of yesterday, stopping it at ~3:10pm.  POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routed the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).
 
The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-4). ).      [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Aki picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  Today’s exercise called for T2 (aerobic/interval 2 min.), with ARED+T2 (resistive+aerobic/continuous), T2 (aerobic/interval 30 sec), ARED/CEVIS (resistive/aerobic/continuous) and T2 (aerobic 4 min) following in the next 4 days.] 
 
Tasks listed for Revin, Malenchenko &amp; Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop,
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>Recording their responses to questions from Roskosmos TV for the “Lesson from Space” project;  [Roskosmos TV studio along with Ministry of Education are working on the “Lesson from Space” project, to be shown in Russian schools on October 4, launch day of Sputnik 1, the first man-made Earth satellite. The TV studio is also recording a footage for the “Kosmonavtika” show on the Rossia 24 news channel], and
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).

