
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Yui completed his Flight Day 15 (FD15) Biochemical Profile Urine collections.  Kelly completed his second of three Journals sessions and his third task observation video for Habitability.

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Journals obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information to help prepare for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as Near Earth Asteroids (NEA) and Mars. The ultimate goal is to understand how much habitable volume is required for vehicle internal design and layout, and if mission duration impacts the volume needed. Observations during the 1-year mission, as well as 6-month missions, can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.

 
Capillary Effects of Drinking in the Microgravity Environment (Capillary Beverage): Microgravity affects the way fluids behave, and as such, crew members must drink from special sealed bags instead of using straws or normal cups. Capillary Beverage studies the process of drinking from specially designed space cups that use fluid dynamics to mimic the effect of gravity. In this session, Yui used water to demonstrate how a complex fluid reacts to the cup’s special designs in an attempt to mimic the gravitational flow of a liquid through capillary forces. High definition video was used to capture the data ground for ground analysis.
 
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (SPRINT) Configuration: Kelly and Yui configured the Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) in advance of the Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max sessions on Wednesday for Kelly and Thursday for Yui. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Stow: Kelly stowed US tools used by the Russian crew during yesterday’s Russian EVA #41.
 
Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Hydrogen Sensor Remove and Replace (R&R): Last Thursday’s Velocicalc reading of the air flow rate into the OGS Rack AAA showed it to be below 450 ft/min versus the expected range of 900 ft/min.  Sufficient air flow through the OGS Rack serves as a hazard mitigation against oxygen (O2) concentrations forming within the rack should an O2 leak develop.  Following discussions within the engineering and operations community, a short term recommendation was made to continue running the OGA to retain O2 production but increase the AAA fan speed to help increase air mixing within the rack. Over the weekend the crew took another reading and found the flow to still be less than 450 ft/min. The team decide to power off the OGS rack after the crew day on Sunday. Today Lindgren R&Rd the OGS Hydrogen Sensor Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU), as well as AAA cleaning and inlet inspection to recover OGA functionality.  The team is currently reactivating the OGA and the crew will perform velocicalc readings on Thursday.
 
Water Recovery System (WRS) Separator Plumbing Assembly (SPA) Vent Line Build: For several months, ground teams have suspected the SPA vent hose is restricted due to microbial growth. There is no microbial control in the purge lines and no designated way to clean them if growth occurs.  Since there are no spare SPA vent hose onboard, today Kelly built an alternate SPA Vent Line by removing the end fittings from an existing Iodine Removal Hose. Later this week the crew will install this hose to eliminate the restriction and return the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) to nominal operations.
 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Serving System (MSS) and maneuvered the SSRMS to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the Lab Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  SSRMS Latching End Effector B (LEE-B) was then released from the SPDM PDGF and the SSRMS was maneuvered into position for the start of the ISS Crew H-II Transfer Vehicle 5 (HTV5) Offset Grapples Practice on GMT 225 (13 Aug 15).  The Robotics Ground Controllers also performed MSS Checkouts in preparation for HTV5 capture on GMT 232 (20 Aug 15).  MSS performance today was nominal.
 

