
Payloads
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L): The crew replaced the CO2 Regulator for controlling the CO2 supply pressure on the Saibo Rack in support of future CBEF-L operations. The CO2 valve was opened to allow flow and the ground teams are performing a leak check of the line. Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Droplet Formation Study: The crew stowed the Droplet Formation Study hardware. Droplet Formation Studies in Microgravity (Droplet Formation Study) seeks to evaluate the water droplet formation, water flow, and pressure of Delta Faucet’s current H2Okinetic shower head technology versus the industry-standard use of jet nozzles. H2Okinetic technology allows better control of droplet size and increases the speed of the drops (fewer water drops are used, but the droplets are larger and are moving faster), which creates a feeling of increased pressure for the end user. The study evaluates how best to control the output of water droplets to create a better performing shower device that provides an improved experience for the end user while also conserving water and energy.
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment-2 (PBRE-2): The crew completed the PBRE-2 Overview. The PBRE-2 investigates the forces acting on a gas and a liquid flowing simultaneously through a column filled with glass spheres in microgravity. Known as two-phase flow, this side-by-side movement of a gas and liquid is used in a variety of space-based systems and equipment. Results could help improve the design of future mass and heat transfer equipment used in space.
Space Studio KIBO: The crew performed the XF305 camcorder setup in preparation for the upcoming live event. The Space Frontier Studio KIBO is a broadcasting studio that is constructed and operated in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM), also known as Kibo. The studio can livestream activities, interactive entertainment, and communication from space. The program can receive uplinked video and audio from a ground studio to Space Frontier Studio KIBO, and downlink video and audio from space to ground.

