
Circadian Rhythms:  A crewmember removed the Armband Monitor and the Thermolab Unit mounted to their belt, completing 36 hours of monitoring for the Circadian Rhythms investigation. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crew members’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crew members’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crew members.
Utilization Preparations for SpaceX-12 Arrival:  In preparation for SpX-12 arrival scheduled for August 16th, crewmembers relocated all three Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) units and the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Experiment Laptop Terminal. They also removed the Phase Change Heat eXchanger (PCHX) locker for return.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The crew completed a final inventory audit for RR-5. They then stowed some items and trashed others.  
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday and overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 7 (WS7) to WS3.  The team then powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to use SPDM Arm2 to transfer the empty Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) from SPDM Enhanced Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP) Side 2 to External Stowage Platform 2 (ESP2) Site 4.  Finally, controllers stowed the SPDM on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2).
Ku Band Contingency Command and Telemetry (CCT) Checkout: In response to the loss of S-Band redundancy due to the loss of power to the S-Band-2 transponder, ground teams completed a checkout of the Ku-Band CCT command and voice capability.  During the test all control centers, including Sp-X Mission Control, successfully sent test commands to ISS via Ku-Band.  Additionally, Ku-Band voice between ISS and MCC-Moscow was verified in the event this is needed during the upcoming Russian Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA).    

