
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Operations: Today the ground started a series of deployments of Cosmogia Dove CubeSats from the NRCSD via the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS). The NRCSD is installed on top of the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) and was brought outside through the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) via the slide table. The JEMRMS grappled the MPEP containing the NRCSD and positioned the NRCSD for deployment. Ground teams successfully deployed two cubesats this afternoon and will deploy four more overnight. Additional deployments are scheduled throughout the next two weeks.
Skin-B Sampling: Commander (CDR) Swanson conducted his sixth Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging which is slow on Earth but greatly accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Resist Tubule Clean Up:  Swanson removed the Charge-Coupled Device (CCD) camera from the Clean Bench (CB) in the Saibo Rack. This cleanup follows the successful run of the Resist Tubule investigation last week. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Support Computer (SSC) version 5 (v5) Transition:  Flight Engineer (FE-5) Wiseman participated in a conference with the ground to discuss the plan for the SSC software transition scheduled later this week.  SSCv5 will update the operating systems, security, and data storage for the on-board Ops LAN.  Ground teams will perform most of the loading and configuration operations for the transition.
External TV Camera Group (ETVCG) Assembly:   Wiseman and Swanson assembled the ETVCG which will be installed at Camera Port 8 during a US  Extravehicular Activity (EVA) later this fall.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5  Hatch Open: FE-6 Gerst and FE-1 Skvortsov reopened the ATV hatch which had been closed for yesterday’s Russian EVA.  ATV cargo unloading will resume tomorrow.

