
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #41: Padalka and Kornienko successfully performed a 5 hour, 31 minute EVA and completed the following tasks:

Install two Gap Spanners on Service Module (SM)
Clean Window #2 on SM large diameter
Install Lock Restraints on WAL1-WAL5 antennas on SM
Take photos of “Expose-R” experiment on SM
Retrieve “Obstanovka” experiment P/L on SM
Perform experiment “Test” in three locations on SM small diameter
Take photos of “Elektron” System Fitting on SM [ПхО]
R&R WAL6 Antenna on SM small diameter
Change orientation of [БКДО] P/L on MRM2
Take photos of ISS RS exterior
Jettison the removed WAL6 antenna
During the EVA, Lindgren, Yui and Kononenko had access to all modules forward of the SM/DC1. Kelly was isolated in 42S for 50 minutes and photographed the starboard Solar Array Wing (SAW) mast from the Mini-Research Module (MRM)-2 starboard window.

 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Yui performed a blood draw and urine collection in support of his Flight Day 15 (FD15) Biochemical Profile and Repository. Yui completed his FD 20 Cognition.  Kornienko performed a post-EVA Reaction Self Test.  Kelly completed his first of three weekly Journal sessions, and Lindgren, with Yui’s assistance, performed his FD15 Body Measures.
 

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
Reaction Self Test aids crewmembers to objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
Journals obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information to help prepare for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
Yui acting as an operator, will assist subject Yui in setting up equipment collecting his first calibration and body pose photographs and the circumference measurements in support of the Body Measures experiment.  Currently, NASA does not have sufficient in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) gathered to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. This study collects anthropometric data (body measurements) using digital still and video imagery and a tape measure to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (i.e., chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts for pre, post, and in-flight conditions.

 
Veggie Hardware Validation Test (Veg-01): Lindgren harvested lettuce grown in the Veggie facility. Lindgren, Yui, and Kelly consumed the harvested lettuce, first plain, then prepared with oil and balsamic vinegar.  The remainder of the leaves were packed and placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a future flight. The primary goal of the Veg-01 testing is to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie hardware using lettuce as a test species. Plants will be grown in two different sizes of arcillite, a calcined clay media. This test will help compare root zones of the two media sizes to determine water and root distribution in the different sized-particles to provide recommendations for future Veggie investigations. Shoot samples will also provide information on growth anomalies when compared with ground controls and will provide information on microbial growth and food safety. Photographs will be used to assess plant growth rates and plant health. A data logger will record the environment within the Veggie hardware. Crew questionnaires will provide insight into the appropriateness and thoroughness of the crew procedures for Veggie hardware and plant growth operations.
 
NanoRacks Platform 3: Kelly performed troubleshooting to resolve Platform 3’s communication issues.  He installed a new USB data cable, uploaded software and installed adapter drivers from a USB flash drive to set the IP address.  Video of the troubleshooting was downlinked for specialist review. Preliminary indications are that the troubleshooting resolved the communication issues.  Ground teams are evaluating the data.
 
Circadian Rhythm: Over the weekend, Lindgren completed his 36 hour data take. Today, he completed data transfer from the armband to the European Physiology Module (EPM) laptop. The main objective of the experiment is to get a basic understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. This data will provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.
 

