
Fluid Shifts Operations In the Service Module: With ground team assistance, crewmembers performed Fluid Shifts Imaging exams by configuring the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) hardware, before completing a DPOAE test, OCT exam, and a Tonometry exam. The purpose of this investigation is to characterize the space flight-induced fluid shift, including intra- and extravascular shifts, intra- and extracellular shifts, changes in total body water and lower vs. upper body shifts. Results from this investigation are expected to help define the causes of the ocular structure and vision changes associated with long duration space flight, and assist in the development of countermeasures. 
Biological Research in Canisters Natural Products (BRIC-NP) Cold Stowage Preparation: The crew retrieved the BRIC-NP canisters from EXPRESS Rack 2 and inserted them in the Glacier for return on SpX-9. The BRIC-NP investigation, radiation-tolerant fungal strains isolated from the Chernobyl nuclear power plant are exposed to spaceflight conditions on board the ISS, then screened for the biological production of beneficial medical or agricultural substances. 
eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS (ViABLE) Payload Return:  The crew photographed all four ViABLE Bags inside the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) locker before removing and inserting each one into separate ViABLE Return Bags and placing them into Ziploc bags for return on SpX-9. ViABLE involves the evaluation of microbial biofilm development on metallic and textile space materials located inside and on the cover of Nomex pouches. Microbial biofilms are known for causing damage and contamination on the Mir space station and the ISS.  The potential application of novel methodologies and products to treat space materials may lead to improvements in the environmental quality of confined human habitats in space and on earth.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of life onboard ISS, providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Dose Tracker: The Dose Tracker app was configured and the crew completed entries for medication tracking on an iPad. This investigation documents the medication usage of crewmembers before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions. 
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Hydrogen (H2) Sensor Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew completed OGS H2 sensor Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) purge adapter operations, R&R of the H2 sensor ORU and AAA cleaning with inlet inspection and cleaning. This activity was scheduled due to ORU end-of-life. 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Sample Collection: The UPA Distillate Filter and Purge Filter were removed and replaced for return samples in support of the UPA elevated conductivity investigation.  The preceding UPA process cycle had elevated conductivity levels and the samples will help ground teams understand the difference in conductivity with the purge line reconnected. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Check Separator Light: To isolate the cause of Check Separator Light illumination, the crew performed an inspection of the hoses and electrical connections on the Urine Receptacle. They reported that the electrical cable on the Urine Receptacle was coiled tightly and may be kinked. They removed the zip tie that was holding the cable together to allow more slack and demated/remated the XT2 connector. Additional troubleshooting steps are in work for the crew to perform as a result of yesterday’s Flight Investigation Team (FIT) recommendations.
Extravehicular Robotics Operations: Yesterday afternoon, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM).  Following SPDM unstow, they maneuvered the SSRMS to position it over the SpX-9 Dragon Trunk and configured the SPDM to extract the International Docking Adapter 2 (IDA2) from the trunk later today. SPDM checkouts were also completed in preparation for the IDA2 Extravehicular Activity (EVA) this Friday.

