ISS On-Orbit Status 08/18/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
As part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel.
 
FE-5 Furukawa completed Day 2 (of 3) with the experimental onboard DK (Diagnostic Kit) which involves a series of medical diagnostic measurements including cardio/heart, brainwave, and oxygen data.     [After recording the first overnight electroencephalographic BW (brainwave) measurements this morning, Satoshi later in the day recorded the first set of Biorhythm data, then used the Digital Walk Holter ECG for collecting the 2<sup>nd</sup> set of Biological Rhythms Operations measurements including heart sound values.  Before sleeptime, FE-5 took his 2<sup>nd</sup> oxygen level measurement with the Pulse Oximeter and started overnight brainwave recording during sleep.  These measurements will be repeated two more times later in the Increment.  Purpose of these activities is to perform diagnostic measurements with medical equipment in order to evaluate the equipment for development of a future diagnostic system on board.  DK includes: Medical laptop, USB Camera, Pulse Oximeter, Stethoscope, Sleep Monitor and Electroencephalograph (for brain waves).]
 
CDR Borisenko inspected the newly activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, checking for proper fan operation by testing the air flow from the ventilators BO A04 &amp; BO A05 and verifying that both LEDs (Light Emitting Diodes) are lit.  After the periodic watering of the plants, Andrey also took documentary photographs of the setup, including close-ups of the plants, the greenhouse and himself as operator, working with LADA-01.      [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).] 
 
Later, after configuring STTS communication systems temporarily for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Borisenko set up and conducted another active session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), supported by ground specialist tagup.  STTS was then reconfigured to nominal.  Andrey later set up the two SONY HVR-Z1J video camcorders for replaying and downlinking their recorded footage over RGS (Russian Groundsite) at 10:05am-10:35am EDT, followed by disassembly of the equipment.          [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
CDR Borisenko &amp; FE-1 Samokutyayev completed their first preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session with the Russian Chibis (“Lapwing”) suit by conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill, each crewmember taking turns as Subject and CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Andrey was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 11:48am, Alex at 1:21pm EDT.      [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of crewmembers’ orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.] 
 
After setting up the Node-3 camcorder to capture video of UMS (Urine Monitoring System) installation &amp; operations in the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment), FE-6 Fossum set up the UMS for testing with the SSC-19 (Station Support Computer 19) laptop but had to abort the activity after several WHC CB (circuit breaker) trips.      [After the UMS was unpowered, the WHC could not be recovered.  UMS was put in a safe configuration, and ground engineers are looking at a possible electrical fault in the system.]
 
Working with Ron &amp; Satoshi, with one of them wearing TOX-2 PPE (Personnel Protective Equipment) while the others helped read procedures and handed off tools, Mike inspected the WHC SOT (wring collector) and removed/replaced the Pump Separator.  After the subsequent WHC activation, the WHC was configured to internal Russian EDV-U urine container (instead of backfill).
 
Later, Mike Fossum –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Took out the partially filled WHC EDV-U and used it to offload the UPA WSTA (Urine Processor Assembly / Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly), which contained about 5 liters,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Reconfigured the T-Valve to WHC as required for re-integrating the WHC with the UPA [the WHC is now operating nominally, and is flowing to the UPA],</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Replaced the partially filled EDV-U in the WHC [now that the WSTA has been purged of its suspect fluid, and the suspect Pump Separator has been replaced, the WHC can supply urine to the UPA.  If all goes to plan, EDVs will not have to be replaced anytime soon], and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Built a new EDV from components (lid &amp; body), for contingency use.</li></ul> 
Fossum also pre-gathered two CDs (Compact Disks) which are required for the upcoming software reload of the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) PWS1 (Portable Workstation 1) laptop.      [The CDs were temporarily stowed near the PWS1 installation location in front of the EPM (European Physiology Module).] 
 
After checking out proper communications between the BSPN Payload Server and the RSS1 laptop, Andrey downloaded data accumulated from the GFI-7 Molniya-GAMMA experiment mounted externally since the Russian EVA-28.       [GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.]
 
FE-4 Volkov charged the FSS Photospectrograph battery and then used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 during a one-hour segment, taking pictures of targets along the flight track, including water and coastal areas of the Pacific Ocean, typical natural areas of South America (lakes, glaciers, etc.), plus water and coastal areas of the Atlantic Ocean.      [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
Mike worked on the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), removing &amp; replacing its GLS (Gas Liquid Separator), then primed the TOCA fluid line with water from the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) and buffer solution from the TOCA BC (Buffer Container) to wet the dry GLS.  Additionally, FE-6 updated the TOCA software configuration file to increase the P1 pressure sensor’s upper fault limit and decrease the P2 sensor’s lower fault limit.       [The limit settings were changed from 9 mmHg to 15 mmHg for P1, and from 21 mmHg to 18 mmHg for P2.  This change should allow for a TOCA run to be completed tomorrow.]
 
Fossum also conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [The current card (28-0014J) lists 118 good CWCs (2,814.1 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (32 CWCs with 1,332.8 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 872.3 L in 21 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 390.8 L in 9 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. Iodinated water (74 CWCs with 1,333.6 L (also 33 expired bags with 603.2 L);  4. condensate water (130.9 L in 9 bags, plus 1 empty bag); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (37.0 L in 2 CWCs, incl. 20.2 L from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
After installing the 4 PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab to protect the rack from external loading (dynamic disturbances), Ron Garan had ~2h20m for configuring the Lab camcorder to provide live view of his subsequent work on the FIR FCF (Fluids Integrated Rack Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility), then ran another session with the PACE (Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment) hardware using the 3<sup>rd</sup> PACE sample (#2003) for processing.  PACE will be concluded next week.     [PACE is a Technology experiment, designed to investigate the capability of conducting high magnification colloid experiments with the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) for determining the minimum size particles which can be resolved with it.  Today’s activity steps included opening the AFC front door, rotating the LMM SBA (Light Microscopy Module Spindle Bracket Assembly) from the Operate to Service position and cleaning the oil from the LMM 100x lens in revolver position 5, mixing the 3<sup>rd</sup> particle sample with the BCAT (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test) magnet, mounting the PACE test target and installing the sample and the PACE oil dispenser into the LMM AFC.  The AFC front door was closed and the oil started to be dispensed onto the sample.  The LMM Spindle Bracket Assembly was then rotated to the Operate position and the rack doors were closed.]
 
Sasha conducted the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
FE-1 also took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
In preparation for today’s Progress 43P propellant system purge/vent activities, FE-3 Garan closed the protective external shutters of the Lab, Cupola &amp; JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) windows.    [The fuel lines were purged at 8:44am for ~800 sec, the oxidizer lines at 10:13am for ~340 sec.  The purge will prevent any further transfer of propellant with 43P which was left with sufficient propellant for undocking on 8/23 and subsequent Radar-4 experiments plus deorbit on 9/1.]
 
The USOS shutters were also closed by Ron for the subsequent test of the ASN-M Satellite Navigation System’s RGPS (Relative Global Positioning System) at 8:28pm, which will require SARJ (Solar Alpha Rotary Joint) feathering.
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, Garan turns on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.      [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6).
 
Node-3 MCA Update:    MCA (Major Constituents Analyzer), powered up and in a 72-hr hold for stabilization since yesterday, is showing sample pump 2 to be the active pump in the Sample Pump ORU-5 (Orbit Replaceable Unit 5).  This could indicate that sample pump 1 has failed.  Engineers are reviewing the data, but even if the pump is failed, it has lasted much longer than expected.  Nominal maintenance plan is to replace ORU-5 after both pumps fail with a spare ORU-5 currently on board.  MCA will remain in LEM (Life Extending Mode) until needed.
 

