ISS On-Orbit Status 08/18/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Saturday – Crew off duty. 
 
At wakeup, Gennady Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Upon wakeup, FE-3 Joe Acaba, FE-5 Sunita Williams &amp; FE-6 Akihiko Hoshide completed their weekly post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, the 30<sup>th</sup> for Joe, the 9<sup>th</sup> for Suni &amp; Aki.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
FE-6 Hoshide had Day 3 of his 2<sup>nd</sup> (FD30) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period after start of collections.  After recording his diet input today, Akihiko broke out the equipment for the associated urine collections for pH value beginning tomorrow, followed by the blood sampling on Monday (8/20).       [For the Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) protocol, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.  Background on pH: In chemistry, pH (Potential Hydrogen) is a measure of the acidity or basicity of a watery solution.  Pure water is neutral, with a pH close to 7.0 at 25 degC.  Solutions with a pH less than 7 are “acidic” and solutions with a pH greater than 7 are “basic” or “alkaline”.  pH measurements are important in medicine, biology, chemistry, agriculture, forestry, food science, environmental science, oceanography, civil engineers and many others.]
 
Padalka, Revin, Acaba, Malenchenko, Williams &amp; Hoshide joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including all USOS (US Orbit Segment) modules like Lab, COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Sergei, Yuri &amp; Gennady also completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP), and the grilles of the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System and SKV air conditioner in the SM.
 
Sergei Revin started a new round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems.     [After yesterday’s suited Orlan translation exercise in the DC1 Pirs module, Sergei changed out the DC1 PF1 &amp; PF2 dust filter cartridges and cleaned the V1 &amp; V2 fan screens, the VD1 &amp; VD2 air ducts and the V3 fan screen.]
 
Gennady conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Joe Acaba performed regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
Acaba &amp; Williams filled out their standard FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MDLT (Medical Laptop).  It was Joe’s 11<sup>th</sup>, Suni’s 4<sup>th</sup>.        [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MDLT software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
Sunita had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in her electronic Journal on the personal SSC.   [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
At ~6:50am EDT, Sergei supported a Russian PAO TV downlink, extending greetings to the freshmen of the National Research University of Electronic Technology (MIET).
 
At ~9:30am, the entire crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~10:25am, Aki had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2, FE-4).      [FE-5 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Friday.  If any day is not completed, Suni pick up where she left off, i.e., she would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day.  Today, her SPRINT exercise started with ARED/CEVIS (resistive/aerobic continuous), with T2 (aerobic 4 min), ARED/CEVIS, T2 (aerobic, interval 30s), ARED/T2 and T2 (Kinematics, 2 min) in the following 5 days.] 
 
Tasks listed for Revin, Malenchenko &amp; Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (32-0027F) lists 13 CWCs (264.9 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (5 CWCs with 214 5 L);  2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 14.0 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (3 CWCs with 36.4 L); and 4. Waste water (1 empty bag EMU waste water).  Also one leaky CWC (#1024) with 8.5 L, stowed in ATV3 for disposal.  No bags with Wautersia bacteria.  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 

