
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Zero Robotics (ZR) Competition: A USOS and Russian crewmember set up the SPHERES hardware and executed the SPHERES Zero Robotics tests with participation from students on the ground. The investigation provides an opportunity for high school students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
Thermolab Deinstrumentation for Circadian Rhythms: The crew removed the double sensors and the Thermolab Unit before cleaning and stowing the equipment following completion of the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) Circadian Rhythm experiment measurement process which took 36 hours over a three day period to complete. The objective of the experiment is to get a better basic understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights.
Mouse Epigenetics Cage Unit Maintenance: The crew performed standard maintenance activities for the Mouse Epigenetics experiment by exchanging the food cartridge of the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit and checking the fan and LED light of the Transportation Cage Unit). The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space. 
NeuroMapping Operations: The crew set up the NeuroMapping hardware before performing the experiment including testing in both a “strapped in” and ”free floating” body configuration. The investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to the brain including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Heart Cells Media Change: The crew changed the media in the Multiwell BioCell for Heart Cells in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) to provide nutrients to the cells and encourage continued cell health. Later in the day, atmospheric conditions inside SABL2 exceeded the acceptable levels and the cells were moved to SABL1 in an effort to save the science.  The investigation studies the human heart, specifically how heart muscle tissue contracts, grows and changes (gene expression) in microgravity and how those changes vary among subjects. Understanding how heart muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes, change in space improves efforts for studying disease, screening drugs and conducting cell replacement therapy for future space missions.
NanoRacks Module 9: The NanoRacks Module 9 experiment session 3 of 5 was completed today. The crew activated, deactivated, and shook the mixture tubes to facilitate the experiment. Module-9 is a collection of student research projects utilizing the NanoRacks Mixsticks. Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of several science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the ISS.
Space Headaches: The crew completed the European Space Agency (ESA) Space Headaches questionnaire to provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crew members which can influence performance during a space mission.
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation. This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. The crewmember’s fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment.
Waste Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Sample – Last week, the contents of the WSTA was emptied into a ЕДВ for the purpose of obtaining a sample for return on SpaceX 9.  Today, the crew successfully obtained a sample from the ЕДВ.  This sample is part of an overall plan for troubleshooting the elevated conductivity of the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) water.  
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Activation – The Lab CDRA was activated to provide supplemental  CO2 removal during a Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) session today.  The SPHEREs payload uses CO2 for propulsion and in order to maintain desired 24hour ppCO2 average, the Lab CDRA can be activated as necessary.  Today’s activation is also being used as the periodic activation of Lab CDRA (required every 30 days).  The Node3 CDRA has been brought to standby and the Lab CDRA will be run for 24 hours.

