ISS On-Orbit Status 08/13/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off-duty day.
  
As part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection, CDR Borisenko checked out the SM (Service Module) PSS caution &amp; warning panel.
 
Borisenko also inspected the newly activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, checking for proper fan operation by testing the air flow from the ventilators BO A04 &amp; BO A05 and verifying that both LEDs (Light Emitting Diodes) are lit.     [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).] 
 
At wake-up, FE-3 Garan, FE-4 Furukawa &amp; FE-6 Fossum completed another post-sleep shift session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
The six crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  As part of today’s uborka, Ron Garan took documentary photographs of the RGSH AORG (Return Grid Sensor Housing add-on screens) at COL D0 before and after going over them with the vacuum cleaner (to be compared with pictures taken during previous cleaning to establish the quantity of debris captured during the week).       ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of the uborka house cleaning, CDR Borisenko, FE-1 Samokutyayev &amp; FE-4 Volkov completed regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of the TsV2 fan screen in the FGB plus Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM, with documentary photography, and the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on its total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.
 
Sergei Volkov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
At ~8:55am EDT, the crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
Satoshi Furukawa started another session with the JAXA SSHDTV (Super Sensitive High-Definition Television) camera from the Cupola in Node-3, today removing the IR (Infrared) cut filter 3 from the single-focus 8 mm lens and setting the automatic recorder clock &amp; time code for continuous recording of Perseid Meteor Shower occurrences, changing the 32GB memory/storage card three times before sleeptime.
 
Samokutyayev terminated the overnight charging of the Russian KPT-2 payload.        [Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).]
 
Mike Fossum used the two hand-held CSA-O<sub>2</sub> (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) units, #1046 &amp; #1059, to take the periodic oxygen readings in the ISS prior to today’s Progress oxygen repress.
 
With the Russian Elektron oxygen generator currently inactive, FE-4 Volkov was to initiate another refresh of the ISS interior with an O<sub>2 </sub>repress from Progress 43P tankage on Go-ahead from TsUP.
 
Ron Garan completed the MERLIN-2 (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator 2) in ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) desiccant change-out started yesterday, installing two fresh packs in the Galley fridge and returning all food items and the tray assembly back into the active unit.  MERLIN-2 will be back at +4 degC in time for the crew’s evening meal.     [MERLIN-2 is used for cold storage of crew food and drink],
 
Andrey Borisenko performed maintenance on the ASU toilet in the Soyuz TMA-21/26S (#231, docked at MRM2), replacing the collector unit with a new spare from FGB stowage.
 
At ~10:35am EDT, Andrey, Sasha &amp; Sergei engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos (Russian Space) Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.       [“Tell us about the departure - on the work itself, about your impressions. After all, for Alexander it is the first such experience.  It seems that only recently Andrei and Alexander arrived at the station, and now it's already time to prepare for the return.  What were you doing during these months?  What have you learned in professional and human terms?  Are you satisfied with your work?  About the rest you'll get on the Earth.  The crew of "Mars-500" is growing lettuces, peppers, tomatoes, all kinds of greens.  And what about you?  What are your plans for the next month?  Thank you!  Good luck!  Have a nice day!  Sincerely, Catherine.”]
 
At ~12:05pm, Mike had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).
 
T2 Maintenance:   Yesterday’s maintenance of the T2 treadmill was completed successfully after some issue with a spacer bar fastener.  Fossum replaced the Sorbothane lining in 3 of the 4 T2 snubber cups which were in need of replacement.   Ground experts reviewed downlinked photographs and gave the crew the Go for nominal use of the T2.  
 

