
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Kelly and Kornienko performed day two of their Flight Day (FD) 150 Ocular Health session.  Kelly completed his Video Walk Through #4 and Observation #11 for Habitability and his second of three weekly Journal activities. Lindgren completed his FD 27 Cognition and Yui completed FD 30 Sprint Ultrasound.

Ocular Health: OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.
Journals obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measures how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance.
Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as Near Earth Asteroids (NEA) and Mars. The ultimate goal is to understand how much habitable volume is required for vehicle internal design and layout, and if mission duration impacts the volume needed.
Yui configured video, Ultrasound 2 machine, and donned the calf and thigh reference guides.  He then performed thigh and calf scans with guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.

Capillary Effects of Drinking in the Microgravity Environment (Capillary Beverage): Microgravity affects the way fluids behave, and as such, crew members must drink from special sealed bags instead of using straws or normal cups. Capillary Beverage studies the process of drinking from specially designed Space Cups that use fluid dynamics to mimic the effect of gravity. In this instance of Capillary Beverage, Lindgren used Lemon-Lime drink to demonstrate how a complex fluid reacts to the cup’s special designs in an attempt to mimic the gravitational flow of a liquid through capillary forces.
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #5 Imagery: Kelly retracted the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table (ST) into the cabin and took pictures of the NRCSD doors and latch configurations.  The images were downlinked for specialists to evaluate prior to NRCSD #6 activities and the ST was extended back into the JEMAL.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo: Kelly performed a procedure review and conference with the ground team prior to the SPHERES Vertigo run scheduled for Wednesday. This investigation uses SPHERES free-flying satellites and is designed to demonstrate and test enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct 3D models of a target object. Additionally, this investigation explores how well the SPHERES free-flyers then perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.
On-Board Training (OBT) Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT): In preparation for capture and berthing of HTV5 currently planned for next Monday, August 24, the crew completed a session of this training where they practiced a 30 meter approach and two Capture Point (CP) hold runs.

