
Payloads
Advanced Imaging, Folding, and Assembly of Colloidal Molecules (ACE-T-9):  The crew removed the two desiccant bags and ACE-T-5 Module, then installed the new ACE-T-9 Module.  The crew took photos of both Module’s capillaries including an overall view and a closer view of each individual capillary (three per module).  The ACE-T-9 investigation involves the imaging, folding, and assembly of complex colloidal molecules within a fluid medium.  This set of experiments not only prepares for future colloidal studies, but also provides insight into the relationship between particle shape, colloidal interaction, and structure.  These so-called “colloidal molecules” are vital to the design of new and more stable product mixtures.
Anti-Atrophy:  The crew installed the Anti-Atrophy sample into Measure Experiment Unit C and installed the unit into the Cell Biology Experiment Facility Incubator Unit (CBEF IU) Micro-G for starting experiment operations.          Muscle atrophy that occurs in microgravity affects the quality of life of astronauts. Research on Inhibitory Effects of Novel Concept Biomaterials, an HSP Inducer and Ubiquitin Ligase Inhibitor, on Microgravity-induced Muscle Atrophy (Anti-Atrophy) tests the ability of these biomaterials to inhibit muscle atrophy in microgravity.  The investigation examines cells cultured with and without biomaterials, including C14Cblin, a muscle atrophy inhibitor, and Celastrol, a muscle synthesis accelerator.
Cardinal Muscle:  The crew performed sample collections and changed out the media for each BioCell specified and preserved the specified BioCell.  Muscle mass diminishes with age on Earth via a condition called sarcopenia, and astronauts experience similar and accelerated loss of muscle mass during spaceflight.  Tissue Engineered Muscle in Microgravity as a Novel Platform to Study Sarcopenia (Cardinal Muscle) evaluates whether engineered human muscle cells cultured in microgravity are a valid model for studying muscle loss.  Because microgravity accelerates the process, a valid tissue model could enable rapid assessment of therapeutics to treat muscle loss.
Cell Gravisensing:  The crew removed Cell Gravisensing samples from the Confocal Space Microscope and temporarily stowed them in Ziploc bags which were secured near the SABL rack.  New samples were removed from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and placed into the Microscope for observations.  The Elucidation of the Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation studies how cells sense gravity.  While recent research has revealed that individual animal cells can detect gravity, the mechanism for this sensing is largely unknown.  This investigation analyzes changes in tension in cell stress fibers during spaceflight as a possible mechanism.
Payload On-orbit Still Shorts for Utilization and Maintenance (POSSUM):  The crew photographed the current configuration of NASA Payload Rack Fronts.  The POSSUM photo project is a training tool that has the ISS crew take onboard photographs of completed Express rack and experiment installations.  These photos are that are sent back down to the ground and printed into actual life size marquees that are used for ISS astronaut ISS training and familiarization
Ring Sheared Drop:  The crew removed existing syringe and test cell and installed a new syringe and new test cell into the Ring Sheared Drop hardware in MSG Work Volume.  The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid.  Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues, amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s.  Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  In preparation for the IROSA 4A preparation EVA currently scheduled for August 24th, the crew completed part one of the equipment lock preparation and the EVA EMU On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV). The OFV was scheduled for two suited crewmembers with one IV crewmember for the entire OFV and an additional crewmember to assist with SAFER donning.
Systems Operations Data File (SODF) Deploy:  The Crew incorporated three updated hardcopy EMER books to the existing SODF on-orbit. New pages were incorporated into EMER-1a: Depress, Fire, Equipment Retrieval in preparation for the Soyuz to MLM relocation, a new generic revision of EMER-1b: Hazardous Release was deployed and a new MLM revision to EMER-1c: Ammonia Response was also deployed. The SODFs consists of the procedures and reference documents, fabricated items, and associated supplies and hardware required to operate and maintain the U.S. element of the ISS during both nominal and off-nominal conditions.

