
Biological Experiment Laboratory (BioLab):  The crew installed a new BioLab Incubator Door Locking Bolt today. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the Columbus laboratory. It is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms. 
Human Research (Cell-Free Epigenome (CFE), Marrow and Medical Proteomics):  A 55S crewmember collected Flight Day 60 blood samples for JAXA’s CFE, Marrow and Medical Proteomics investigations today.  They also collected a breath sample for Marrow.

For the CFE study, blood samples are collected from astronauts and cellular genes are analyzed.  The results provide insight into how human bodies function during space flight.
Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
The Medical Proteomics investigation evaluates changes of proteins in blood serum, bone and skeletal muscles after space flight, and also supports identification of osteopenia-related proteins. By combining research results for space mice, astronauts and ground patients, proteins related to osteopenia can be identified using the latest proteome analysis technique.  It is anticipated that the use of the marker proteins related to osteopenia will be of benefit in the future for assessing the health of astronauts as well as osteoporosis patients on ground. 

Rodent Research-7 (RR-7):  Today the crew restocked and cleaned the rodent habitats. They also stowed fecal pellets and food bar/Habitat swabs in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA):  The crew removed and replaced the CIR FOMA Calibration Unit today.  CIR provides sustained, systematic microgravity combustion research and it houses hardware capable of performing combustion experiments to further research of combustion in microgravity.
Story Time From Space:  A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space project this morning by reading from “A Moon of My Own” while being videotaped and photographed.  The recording will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded onboard the ISS. Crewmembers read science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books on orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Data Recorder (EDaR) Cable Inspection and Install:  Today the crew performed a visual inspection of the connectors on all four cable EDaR cable harnesses to verify the correct clocking of the pins and sockets relative to the connector housing.  They also added a visual identifier to each connector to enable quicker inspections in the future and performed a continuity check on three pairs of pins for all four cables to confirm end-to-end integrity of the wiring within the harness. After confirming that the connectors were clocked correctly and had the right connectivity, the crew installed the complete EDaR system into EMU 3003 and 3004.  EDaR is a new system that provides real-time data storage from EMU systems and increases the rate in which EMU telemetry is sent to ground controllers.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event: Today Drew Feustel recorded a downlink messages for use during the unveiling of a new area at the Amarillo, Texas airport titled “From Amarillo to Outer Space” honoring the late NASA astronaut and STS-107 Commander Rick Husband. He also recorded messages for release at the 29th Annual Thermal and Fluids Analysis Workshop and the annual meeting of the American Society of Cinematographers.
Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: Ground testing has identified errors in the calibration procedure used during the manufacture of Velocicalc hardware. Recently reported lower than expected airflow measurements indicate that one of the on-orbit probes may be affected and reporting incorrect values. In response, the crew took new airflow measurements today at the LAB Aft Port Fan location using two different Velocicalc Probes, allowing for a comparison between units and verification that the issue is with a probes and not the IMV system.  To wrap up the activity, the crew used the spare Velocicalc to retake IMV flow measurements at the locations where suspect measurements were taken last month.
Water Process Assembly (WPA) Ion Exchange Bed Remove and Replace:  Today the crew performed routine maintenance to replace the WPA Ion Exchange Bed. The WPA Ion Exchange Bed removes ionic oxidation byproducts produced in the WPA Catalytic Reactor and provides iodine disinfectant to prevent microbial growth in the Water Storage Tank and Potable Bus.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night robotic ground controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) as required to stow the Robotic Offset Tool (ROST) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator. Both ROST and SPDM were used during last week’s HTV-7 Battery Remove and Replace (R&R) Get-Ahead tasks. 

