
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #39: EV1 Alexander Skvortsov and EV2 Oleg Artemyev successfully completed a 5 hour 11 minute EVA. The following tasks were completed:

Deploy Nanosatellite [HC-1]
Install experiment “Expose-R” on SM universal work platform (Plane II)
Install holder on AFAR antenna handrail clamp
Take samples from SM Window #13 (“Test” experiment)
Install experiment [БКДО] (Plume Impingement and Deposit Monitoring Unit) on MRM2
Retrieve [CKK] #1 cassette and install [CKK] #2 on MRM2
Retrieve experiment “Vinoslivost” panel #2a from MRM2
Retrieve experiment “Biorisk” container #3 from DC1

During the EVA, Commander (CDR) Swanson was isolated in 38 Soyuz (38S) and took inspection photos of the starboard Solar Array (SA) masts, completed Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On-Board Training (OBT) and reviewed Station Support Computer (SSC) planned updates.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Canada 1 (C1) Image Transfer and Set Up:  Flight Engineer (FE-5) Wiseman transferred images for BCAT-C1 and set up the next BCAT-C1 sample. The BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity will allow the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process. 
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: FE-6 Gerst removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides isolated the rack and allowed ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. Toluene was used for this test point. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Electromagnetic Levitation (EML) Installation: Gerst inserted the Experiment Controller and the EML Gas Supply drawer into the European Drawer Rack (EDR). EML aims to increase the performance of metallic/alloy structures through an understanding of how solidification can be controlled. Develop a data base of properties to allow better process modeling. Will investigate solidification and microstructural evolution and evaluate thermo-physical properties of highly reactive molten metals.
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Airlock (A/L) Reconfiguration: Gerst completed part 1 of this activity today in preparation for NORS installation which will be scheduled at a later date. He relocated items from the A/L overhead bins and stowed NORS items that were previously temp stowed.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Version 5 (v5) Software Transition: In preparation for SSC transition from software version 4 to version 5 this week, Swanson moved crew personal data from their assigned SSCs. Wiseman, Gerst and Swanson reviewed SSCv5 training material and expected impacts during the transition.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: Wiseman completed this routine activity to inspect and verify Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) and Pre-Breathe Mask functionality and that they are free from damage.

