
Resist Tubule: Over the weekend, Commander (CDR) Swanson removed the Resist Tubule samples from the +2 Celsius Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), inserted the samples into Measurement Experiment Unit B and attached the unit inside the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 1-gravity Incubator Unit (IU). Today, he removed the Resist Tubule samples from the micro-gravity IU and inserted them into the Clean Bench (CB) for observation. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Robonaut Mobility Upgrades: Swanson continued Robonaut mobility upgrades by installing cables, establishing connections and cabling the new processors and cards installed last week. These upgrades are in preparation to support the installation of the Robonaut legs. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Smartphone: CDR Swanson attempted to map the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM), US Lab, and Node 2 using Smartphones delivered on Orbital-2. One wall of the JEM was mapped, but due to intermittent connectivity with the Wireless Access Point (WAP), the Smartphone application took longer to download than expected. Time will be scheduled at a later date to complete the remaining mapping objectives. The SPHERES Smartphone investigation will demonstrate telerobotic operations using SPHERES and smartphone technology, as well as assess the capability of consumer electronics to perform vision-based navigation.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Fuel Replace: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman replaced both MDCA fuel reservoirs inside the CIR. With new reservoirs in the place, the ground team will be able to resume FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 test points. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels. 
On Board Training (OBT) Cygnus Departure Review:  Wiseman and FE-6 Gerst performed OBT in preparation for Orb-2 departure scheduled for Friday, August 15. This proficiency training covered departure profile, crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding Cygnus.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) Transfer Review:  Swanson, Gerst and Wiseman reviewed ATV transfer procedures in preparation for ATV-5 cargo operations beginning later this week.
ATV Fly Under: The ATV successfully performed a fly under of the ISS last Friday to gather data for the Laser Infra-Red Imaging Sensors (LIRIS) experiment. The closest point of approach occurred at 5:45 pm CDT at a range of 6.1 km.  ATV-5 is scheduled to dock to the ISS tomorrow at 8:30 am CDT. 

