
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Zero Robotics (ZR):  The crew provided support for a SPHERES ZR Challenge competition between students from middle schools in the United States and Russia.  As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms were tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs were selected for the competition today to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
Space Headaches:  The 51 Soyuz (51S) USOS crewmembers completed weekly questionnaires for the ESA Space Headaches investigation.  The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The Crew performed a final inventory audit for RR-5 and stowed or trashed applicable RR-5 items. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last evening, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 1 (PDGF1) and onto the Node2 PDGF.  They then maneuvered the SSRMS into position and powered up the MSS in the Hot Backup Configuration in preparation for today’s SpaceX-12 Offset Grapples Practice.  Finally the ROBOs translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 3 (WS3) to WS4. 
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple: In preparation for SpaceX-12 capture scheduled for August 16, the crew practiced Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) grapple approaches. They maneuvered the SSRMS over the pin and practiced pulling the trigger once they were in the grapple envelope. During the session the crew paid particular attention on how to best manage the volumetric constraints in the Cupola as well as how lighting conditions vary inside.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) P12B_B Status: Ground teams successfully reclosed Remote Power Controller (RPC) 10 of RPCM P12B_B and the RPC remains closed as of this writing. The RPC originally tripped on Wednesday and the trip signature indicates a Field Effect Transistor (FET) Hybrid failure. This RPC powers the S-Band transponder for String 2 and is an external RPCM that can be removed and Replaced (R&R) by the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). Planning is underway to perform this R&R no earlier than August 18th.
Command and Control (C&C)-3 Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Transition: The primary C&C-3 MDM unexpectedly transitioned to Diagnostics mode. C&C-1 successfully transitioned to Primary with C&C-2 as the Backup. C&C-3 has been power-cycled and restarted nominally with no health flags. During the transition to C&C-1, there was a 40 minute loss of Ku-band including Space to Ground 3 and 4 as well as real-time payload science data downlink.

