
New Status:
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano performed SLM measurements throughout the ISS, collecting acoustic readings in Columbus (including Water Pump Assembly (WPA)2 noise test), Node 2, US Lab, HTV4, Node 1, PMM, MRM1, MRM2, and the SM.  The data collected was downlinked and will be reviewed by specialists to determined if any mitigation steps are required for the various modules.  On July 5, 2013 (GMT 2013/186) the crew performed a remove and replace (R&R) of WPA2 and was unable to reinstall all of the acoustic cover.  The data from this SLM session will assess the on-board acoustic environment in the Columbus with this new configuration of WPA2. 
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-1 Sample: FE-6 Nyberg activated sample number 7 out of 10 planned sessions for the ACE experiment. She configured the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) facility on the ISS, then mixed the sample for ground specialists to observe via LMM video feed.  ACE-1 is the first in a series of microscopic imaging investigations of materials which contain small colloidal particles, which have the specific characteristic of remaining evenly dispersed and distributed within the material. This investigation takes advantage of the unique environment onboard the ISS in order to separate the effects induced by Earth’s gravity in order to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within these colloidal materials.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES): FE-3 Cassidy performed a run of the SPHERES experiment today. The two objectives for this run were to (1) test the operation of new Graphical User Interface (GUI) tools to enable human supervised control of satellites, including creating targets and timing of paths, and (2) test the operation of new GUI tools when there are multiple satellites in motion and the crew must either supervise and/or control the motion of the satellites. SPHERES are bowling-ball sized spherical satellites that will be used inside the ISS to test a set of well-defined instructions for spacecraft performing autonomous rendezvous and docking maneuvers. Three free-flying spheres will fly within the cabin of the station, performing flight formations. Each satellite is self-contained with power, propulsion, computers and navigation equipment. The results are important for satellite servicing, vehicle assembly and formation flying spacecraft configurations.
Ice Crystal-2 Install:  Nyberg installed Ice Cell 2 and Ice Cell 2 Circuit Box into Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF). Ice Crystal-2 examines the growth rates and stability of ice crystals in supercooled water including antifreeze glycoprotein (AFGP).
External Free-floating Object Identified: Earlier today, the crew noticed a piece of debris floating aft of 52 Progress docked at DC1 nadir.  Video and still imagery were taken and reviewed by ground specialists.  Russian specialists have confirmed that the object is a Russian antenna cover from one of the antennas located on the Service Module. Ground Trajectory officers will continue to track the cover, however, preliminary analysis shows there are no concerns with recontact with the ISS.

