
Payloads
Cardinal Muscle:  Crew removed the Cardinal Muscle samples from Glacier in preparation for operations.  Muscle mass diminishes with age on Earth via a condition called sarcopenia, and astronauts experience similar and accelerated loss of muscle mass during spaceflight.  Tissue Engineered Muscle in Microgravity as a Novel Platform to Study Sarcopenia (Cardinal Muscle) evaluates whether engineered human muscle cells cultured in microgravity are a valid model for studying muscle loss.  Because microgravity accelerates the process, a valid tissue model could enable rapid assessment of therapeutics to treat muscle loss.
Cell Gravisensing:  The crew removed Cell Gravisensing samples from the Confocal Space Microscope and temporarily stowed them in Ziploc bags which were secured near the SABL rack.  New samples were removed from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and placed into the Microscope for observations.  The Elucidation of the Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation studies how cells sense gravity.  While recent research has revealed that individual animal cells can detect gravity, the mechanism for this sensing is largely unknown.  This investigation analyzes changes in tension in cell stress fibers during spaceflight as a possible mechanism.
Cool Flames Investigation with Gases:  The crew replaced the Manifold 4 fuel bottle with 1.00 liters of 100% C3H8 (Propane).  Cool diffusion flames were discovered during droplet combustion experiments aboard the ISS in 2012, and this initiated a rapidly growing field of combustion research.   A cool flame is one that burns at about 600 degrees Celsius.   A typical candle is about three-and-a-half times hotter, burning at around 1,400 degrees Celsius.  Most internal combustion engines are designed using computer models that neglect cool flame chemistry, but ignition and flame propagation in engines depend on cool flame chemistry.  Cool flame chemistry also has a significant impact on fuel octane and cetane numbers, whose understanding has large economic consequences.
ESA-Education Payload Operations (EPO) Generic Videos:  A crewmember recorded part 2 of a 2-part video series that will be used to demonstrate the benefits of space exploration technologies and activities for Earth.  A crewmember also recorded video that will be used to educate children about natural and artificial satellites, what they are and how we can benefit from them and will feature Paxi, ESA’s mascot for young children.  The activities related to ESA-EPO Generic Videos are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum and stimulate the curiosity of students to motivate them towards further study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects.
Ring Sheared Drop:  The crew installed the Ring Sheared Drop Hardware into the MicroGravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and installed the first pre-stage sample syringe.  The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid.  Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues; amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s.  Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
The ISS Experience:  The crew assembled and installed the ISS Experience EVA Z-Camera onto the JEM Airlock Slide Table hardware which will be used to support checkout and operations prior to the 4A IROSA EVA on GMT 236.  The ISS Experience is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station.  Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  In preparation for the IROSA 4A preparation EVA currently scheduled for August 24th, the crew completed EVA Suit reviews as well as a visual review of the EVA using the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphic (DOUG) software.  The DOUG software package is used to plan EVAs through crewmember position and station configuration. It prepares crew for EVA tasks they are expected to complete during their mission.  This session allowed the crew to view the step-by-step sequence of the SSRMS support during the IROSA 4A preparation EVA.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Floating Potential Measurement Unit (FPMU) Assembly:  In preparation for the FPMU R&R during the IROSA 4A preparation EVA, the crew assembled the new FPMU stack.  The FPMU stack consists of FPMU, FPMU Isolation Base, FPMU to TVCIC I/F Cable and the TVCIC.  The FPMU has been operational since 2006 and its power failure signature started occurring in 2008. Based on similar failures in other TVCIC equipment, the failure has been attributed to known issues with the TVCIC MDI power supply component.  The FPMU measures electrical charges that can build on solar arrays and surfaces in orbit, raising safety concerns for astronauts and potentially damaging equipment when electrostatic discharges arise.

