
SpaceX (SpX)-12 Launch: SpX-12 launched successfully today from Kennedy Space Center at 11:31 am CDT. In addition to supplies and equipment for crew members, the vehicle will deliver investigations and instruments that study cosmic ray particles, protein crystal growth, stem cell-mediated recellularization and nanosatellite technology demonstration. Capture and berthing is scheduled for August 16 at 6:00 am CDT.
Multi-Omics-Mouse: The crew set up equipment and the Glove Box and performed an inventory for the JAXA Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation. Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In Multi-Omics-Mouse, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, which could improve the gut environment and immune function. After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis, and evaluate the effect of FOS during flight.
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9): The crew installed and configured the Animal Habitats for the RR-9 investigation. The Ground then completed a software checkout of all the Habitats. The RR-9 experiment studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays aboard the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joint, the eyes and the immune system.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 3: A crewmember retrieved Biophysics 3 Plate 1 from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and allowed it to thaw before installing it in the LMM.  The LMM was then be placed into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) for a Biophysics science run.  Using the three-dimensional structure of proteins, scientists can determine how they function and how they are involved in disease. Some proteins benefit from being crystallized in microgravity, where they can grow larger and with fewer imperfections. Access to crystals grown on the ISS supports research for a wide range of diseases, as well as microgravity-related problems such as radiation damage, bone loss and muscle atrophy. This investigation identifies which proteins would benefit from crystallization in space. 
Sprint Ultrasound 2:  For their Flight Day 120 Sprint Ultrasound 2 session, a crewmember, with support from an operator, configured the Ultrasound 2, placed reference marks on the calf and thigh of their right leg, donned the thigh and calf guides, and performed thigh and calf scans with remote guidance from the Sprint ground team. Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. 
Lighting Effects Vision Test:  The crew will temporarily stowed Visual Performance Test hardware in their crew quarters, set the light to the correct mode, turned all other light sources in the crew quarters off, and performed a Numerical Verification Test and a Color Discrimination Test.  The crew then photographed the completed tests and transferred the photos to for downlink. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Habitability:  On Sunday a crewmember performed a walkthrough video in the ISS of the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) and the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) in the US Laboratory.  Requested details for the video included work volume, impacts to translation in the module, layout, restraints, stowage, and recommendations for future designs. The Habitability investigation results will be used to assess the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need. 
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): The crew completed a series of interactive tasks during a FMS session. The FMS investigation studies how the fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of the investigation is to determine how fine motor performance in microgravity varies over the duration of six-month and year-long space missions; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance varies before and after gravitational transitions, including periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
At Home In Space:  The crew completed an At Home in Space questionnaire. This Canadian Space Agency experiment assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space uses a questionnaire to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) P12B_B Status: On Sunday, RPCM P12B_B tripped after 2 ½ days of remaining closed. Ground teams successfully reclosed the RPC and it remains closed as of this writing. This RPC powers the S-Band transponder for String 2. The trip signature continues to indicate a Field Effect Transistor (FET) Hybrid failure. This is an external RPCM that can be Removed and Replaced (R&R) by the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). Planning is underway to perform this R&R no earlier than August 18th.
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for SpX-12 arrival, the crew studied an overview of attached phase operations as well as attached phase configuration. 

