
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Docking:  ATV-5 successfully docked to the ISS Service Module (SM) aft port at 8:30 am CDT.   Hatch opening and air scrubbing are scheduled for tomorrow, with cargo operations beginning on Thursday.  ATV will remain docked to the ISS until early next year.
Robonaut Mobility Upgrades: Commander (CDR) Swanson completed Robonaut upgrades in preparation for installation of the Robonaut legs. Swanson powered up Robonaut for a power soak and then later was able to move his arms into the stowed configuration. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Troubleshooting: Flight Engineer (FE-5) Wiseman set up the SPHERES hardware to troubleshoot the positioning system which experienced issues during a SPHERES Vertigo session in July. The troubleshooting was successful and teams have a forward plan for the SPHERES Zero Robotics session later in the week.
Resist Tubule: Swanson removed the Resist Tubule samples from the 1-gravity Incubator Unit (IU) and inserted them into the Clean Bench (CB) for observation. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance which is a principal gravity response in plants and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response. 
European Drawer Rack (EDR) Preparation: FE-6 Gerst disconnected Facility for Absorption and Surface Tension (FASTER) cables from the EDR. He also removed KUBIK-6 from the KUBIK drawer in the EDR. These activities are in preparation for Electromagnetic Levitation (EML) installation into the EDR. EML was delivered on ATV-5 and aims to help increase the performance of metallic/alloy structures through an understanding of how solidification can be controlled and develop a data base of properties to allow better process modeling. The experiment investigates solidification and microstructural evolution and evaluates thermo-physical properties of highly reactive molten metals.
Photo/TV Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Configuration: Wiseman configured cameras  to be used during next Monday’s Russian EVA #39. 

