
Russian ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) 45: Today Artemyev (EV1) and Prokopev (EV2) exited the Docking Compartment (DC)1 at 11:17 AM CDT in order to complete Russia EVA #45. The EVA is on-going and the Russian Crew are working to complete the following tasks:

Deployment of 2 nanosatellites “Tanyusha-YuZGU” [Completed]
Deployment of 2 nanosatellites “SiriusSat” [Completed]
Panoramic shooting for TV company “Russia Today” using GoPro 360 cameras
Installation of P/L “ICARUS” on URM-D work station on Pl.II of the Service Module (SM) [In-Work]
Removal and jettison of SE “Obstanovka” hardware (if crew time available)
Removal of “Test” exposure cassettes #15 and 16 on Mini Research Module (MRM)2
Removal of “Test” exposure cassettes #17 and 18 on DC1

Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) 13:  The crew set up the PCG 13 investigation hardware and prepared the sample tubes and pipettes to enable filling of the PCG Card wells. The CASIS PCG 13 investigation seeks to enhance the way crystals are grown in a microgravity environment by allowing crew members to observe imperfections within a crystal and make real-time adjustments to follow-up experiments, rather than returning a sample to Earth and relaunching for additional attempts. The changes have the potential to dramatically reduce the time it takes to conduct an experiment onboard the ISS and result in a more cost-effective solution for prospective researchers. 
Sextant Navigation: Today the crew performed the third session for the Sextant Navigation investigation. Following data collection, the crew recorded the results for ground evaluation. The Sextant Navigation investigation focuses on stability and star sighting opportunities in microgravity. Astronauts onboard the ISS test a hand-held sextant that is intended for use on future Orion exploration missions. The results from this investigation can aid in the development of emergency navigation methods for future manned spacecraft. Historically, Gemini missions in 1965-66 were the first to exercise sextant sightings from a spacecraft. A sextant was built into Apollo vehicles as a navigation backup in case of lost communications.
Surface Tension Containment Experiment-2: Today the crew used a camcorder to provide live high definition video documentation of Surface Tension Containment experiment operations.  Surface Tension Containment Experiment-2 is designed to support efforts to increase the ability of the ISS crew to conduct experiments outside of gloveboxes and in the open cabin of the ISS. It assesses the formation and capture of microdroplets using airflow when a pipette is repeatedly inserted and withdrawn from liquid in a well plate, and tests the stability of liquid in a well plate under various conditions. Safely and effectively conducting experiments outside of gloveboxes expands the capabilities of the space station as a microgravity laboratory. 
Chemical Gardens: The crew removed a Chemical Gardens ampoule kit from a Cargo Transfer Bag, broke the seal between the ampoules and mixed the contents of both. In the Chemical Gardens experiment, selected metal salts are added to an aqueous solution of sodium silicate (Na2SiO3), resulting in the formation of inorganic structures that resemble plant growth in a time span ranging from minutes to hours. On Earth, gravity-induced flow due to buoyancy differences between the reactants complicates our understanding of the physics behind these “chemical gardens”. Conducting this experiment in the microgravity environment onboard the ISS removes the gravity effects, ensures diffusion-controlled growth, and allows researchers a better assessment of initiation and evolution of chemical gardens. 
Story Time From Space:  A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space project this morning by reading from “Ada Twist, Scientist” while being videotaped and photographed.  The recording will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded onboard the ISS. Crewmembers read science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books on orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) PS-120 Junction Box Remove and Replace (R&R):  Earlier today, the crew replaced a PS-120 Junction Box at the JPM1A7 location. After the new junction box was installed, the crew re-connect all the downstream loads that were disconnected for the R&R. The PS-120 is a power strip that contains integrated over-current protection for downstream users.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM)1O2 Rack Cleanout: In preparation for HTV-7 arrival next month, the crew emptied the rack at the PMM1O2 location today in order to make room for trash generated during the upcoming mission. All items in this rack were sorted into bags and moved to the Gutted Mares Rack now at the PMM1D4 location.
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Loop Scrub Hardware Reorganization: Earlier today, the crew swapped out the old EVA Loop Scrub hardware, part of the Airlock Cooling Loop Recovery Unit (ALCLR), with new components that arrived earlier this year. This new hardware adds the capability for real-time water conductivity measurements during loop scrubs and includes improvements to the filter media and water loop routing.  

