
Body Measures: Commander (CDR) Swanson Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman conducted their Flight Day (FD)135 and FD 80 sessions, respectively, of Body Measures.  They set up body marker instrumentation and took calibration and body pose pictures along with circumference measurements. They then recorded a neutral body posture video. The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight. Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Zero Robotics Test Run: Swanson set up the SPHERES hardware and executed a dry run for the Zero Robotics competition scheduled for Friday, August 15th. The investigation establishes an opportunity for high school students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
Sprint Operations: Wiseman completed his FD 75 Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) protocol using the Blood Pressure (BP)/Electrocardiogram (ECG) hardware. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Status:  Hatch opening and air scrubbing were completed today with cargo operations beginning tomorrow.  Prior to opening the hatch, FE-6 Gerst and FE-1 Skvortsov performed ATV Attached Phase Operations (APO) Drill.
Cygnus Departure Preparations/Hatch Closure:  In preparation for Orb-2 unberth on Friday, Gerst and Wiseman performed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) release OBT.   Later in the day, Swanson and Wiseman configured the vehicle for departure and closed the hatch.

