ISS On-Orbit Status 08/17/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
At wakeup, CDR Gennady Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
FE-6 Hoshide had Day 2 of his 2<sup>nd</sup> (FD30) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period after start of collections.  After recording his diet input each day, Akihiko will start the urine collections for pH value on Monday (8/20) and blood sampling on Tuesday (8/21).       [For the Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) protocol, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.  Background on pH: In chemistry, pH (Potential Hydrogen) is a measure of the acidity or basicity of a watery solution.  Pure water is neutral, with a pH close to 7.0 at 25 degC.  Solutions with a pH less than 7 are “acidic” and solutions with a pH greater than 7 are “basic” or “alkaline”.  pH measurements are important in medicine, biology, chemistry, agriculture, forestry, food science, environmental science, oceanography, civil engineers and many others.]
 
FE-5 Williams began her day with the visual T+2 days (44 ± 4h) microbial (bacterial &amp; fungal) analysis of water samples collected by her on 8/15 from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Ambient port (125 mL) using the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit / Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for inflight coliform indications (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).
 
Afterwards, Sunita completed her first regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh her CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.   The video-based proficiency drill today focused on a review of all topics.  At the end, Suni completed a self-assessment questionnaire.  Answers were provided at test conclusion.       [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
FE-3 Acaba performed periodic service on the CSA BCAT (Canadian Space Agency Binary Colloidal Alloy Test)-C1 experiment, transferring the images recorded to date from the NIKON D2Xs camera to SSC (Station Support Computer) for downlink and changing the camera’s batteries.       [BCAT-C1 studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions have the unique property that the particles separate -- like oil and water -- and the particles then self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light, like opal. Photographing these samples in micro-G allows the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study enables the development of new insights into this important materials process. Major differences to other BCATs are specific flash angle, increased lens-to-SGM distance, and the freedom to use the focus adjustment ring.]
 
With the Lab G1 camcorder configured to provide live view of his subsequent work on the FIR FCF (Fluids Integrated Rack / Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility), Joe Acaba also conducted another session with the ACE (Advanced Colloids Experiment) hardware for which he mixed and installed a new sample (#2005) for processing.       [Steps included swapping the FIR White Lift F/O (Fiber Optics) cable of the LMM (Light Microscopy Module), rotating the LMM to Service position and changing out the ACE sample (without oil), then moving the LMM back to Operate position, closing both rack doors, turning on two switches and notifying POIC (Payload Operation &amp; Integration Center/Huntsville) that the rack is prepared for command on RPC (Remote Power Controller).  Background:  ACE is an interesting technology experiment, designed to conduct high magnification colloid experiments with the LMM (Light Microscopy Module). The earlier onboard experiments PACE (Preliminary ACE) used the PACE LED (Light-Emitting Diode) Base to allow illumination from below the samples (or trans-illumination) to allow the ground to use the LMM microscope to examine tissue and particle samples and also characterize the microscope for the current ACE.   ACE Objective:  To remove gravitational jamming and sedimentation so that it is possible to observe how order arises out of disorder and to learn to control this process.  Small colloidal particles can be used to model atomic systems and to engineer new systems.  Colloids are big enough (in comparison to atoms) to be seen and big enough that their evolution can be recorded with a camera.  With a confocal microscope, templates, and grids, we can observe this process in 3-D and learn to control it.]
 
Later, Joe completed another weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of continuing WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.        [The current card (32-0027E) lists 14 CWCs (284.0 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (5 CWCs with 214.5 L, plus 1 empty bag);  2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 14.0 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (3 CWCs with 55.5 L); and 4. Waste water (1 empty bag EMU waste water).  Also one leaky CWC (#1024) with 8.5 L).  No bags with Wautersia bacteria.  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] 
 
Akihiko Hoshide performed his 2<sup>nd</sup> (FD30) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Resting Echo Scan in the US Lab, assisted by Sunita Williams who served as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) to operate the USND (Ultrasound) scans.       [Wearing electrodes, ECG (Electrocardiograph) cable &amp; VOX, Aki underwent the USND scan for ICV assessment, with video being recorded from the HRF (Human Research Facility) Ultrasound and COL cabin camera.  Heart rate was tracked with the HRM (Heart Rate Monitor).  There are dietary constraints, and no exercise is allowed 4 hrs prior to scan.  After confirmed file transfer, the gear was powered down and stowed.  Later, the data from the two HM-2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi Cards and two Actiwatch Spectrums were transferred from the USND-2 (Ultrasound 2) hard drive to the USND-2 USB drive.  Voice required last 5 minutes for crew to inform ground copy process is complete.  The USND echo experiment uses the Image Collector software on the laptop and requires VOX/Voice plus RT Video downlink during the activity.  Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  The ICV experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD15, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there are fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).]
 
After completion of all Orlan-MK suit preparations in the last few days, CDR Gennady Padalka began Russian EVA-31 Dry-run activities at ~4:30am EDT by tearing down &amp; removing the air ducts between the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment) and DC1 Docking Compartment/airlock (not including their V3 ventilation fan) to make room for the subsequent suited exercise.     [Removals included the IP-1 airflow sensor in the hatch between PkhO &amp; DC1, reinstalled afterwards.]
 
At the same time, FE-4 Yuri Malenchenko checked out the Orlan BRTK “Korona” comm and telemetry equipment, while FE-2 Sergei Revin configured the STTS communications systems in the DC1 for the exercise.     [The suited run requires wireless Tranzit-B suit radio telemetry on both semi-sets.  Tranzit-B TM was turned off after the checkout.] 
 
After another functionality &amp; leak check of the Orlan-MK suits, their equipment and their BSS interface units in DC1 &amp; PkhO, Gennady &amp; Yuri began donning EVA gear at ~5:25am with the assistance of Sergei Revin, i.e., putting on personal gear bags, biomed harness, thermal underwear, LCG (liquid cooling garment), low-noise headset, gloves, etc.      [Before donning their spacesuits, they activated the REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery) helmet TV camera power supply, turned on the helmet-mounted TV cameras on Orlan #5 and performed checkouts to make sure that the green LEDs (Light-Emitting Diodes) were on.]
 
After more testing of comm hookups &amp; biomedical parameter telemetry via the BSS Orlan interface system for vital signs &amp; equipment monitoring, suit-up then culminated in ingress in the Orlans (~6:35am) through their “backdoors” and sealing off of the backpacks.
 
Next in line were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">More functionality checkouts of the suits and their BSS controls (e.g., temperature control handling, water cooling system ops, preliminary Orlan &amp; BSS leak checks), </li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Preliminary dimensional suit fit checks at reduced suit pressure of 0.4 atm (5.9 psi), and </li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">About 30 min testing/training of suited mobility &amp; translation inside the DC1, beginning at ~7:15am. </li></ul>[These “intramural” exercises simulated some EVA 31 tasks to evaluate Orlan sizing, including translation to DC1 work stations with mated fluid umbilical, assessment of how the interior DC1 config impacts operations with various gear &amp; accessories such as the POV (EVA support panel) and BSS, moving the BRT (Body Restraint Tether) with a CLB (Crew Lock Bag) and securing the BRT on a handrail, retrieving the EVA camera from the KPU tool carrier and stowing it temporarily on the OTA swing arm, etc.  The dry-run was successful; no major issues were reported.]
 
Yuri &amp; Gennady’s egress from their Orlan-MKs was at about 7:45am, followed by restoration of STTS communication settings in the DC1 to nominal ops and post-training close-out activities, including air duct assembly.
 
Afterwards, CDR &amp; FE-4 closed out the exercise, replacing the Orlan replaceable elements, filling the water tanks and generally readying their spacesuits for Monday’s EVA-31.     [Preliminary tasks of the 6h23m spacewalk are:  Relocate “Strela-2” crane from DC1 to FGB (GA), deploy “Sfera” satellite from DC1 EVA ladder, and install five MMOD (Micrometeoroid/Orbital Debris) shields on SM small diameter.  Get-ahead tasks (time permitting) are: Retrieve experiment SKK-2 from DC1 &amp; bring on board, retrieve “Biorisk-MSN” container #1 from DC1 &amp; bring on board, and install two support struts on DC1 EVA ladder.  The Sfera satellite (also known as Vektor-T calibration sphere) is a simple sphere for determining atmospheric density by tracking and measuring its drag.  It will be in orbit for 2-5 months, and will burn up completely upon re-entry.]
 
FE-2 Revin conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Sergei also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Afterwards, FE-2 completed another 30-min. session for the DZZ-13 (Distantsionnoye zondirovaniye zemli/Remote Sensing of Earth-13) “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining SONY HDV-Z7E camcorder footage and NIKON D3-U01 (f=80mm) imagery of color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern Atlantic and the African coastline, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
Hoshide worked in the ATV3 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 3) to enable its safe hatch closure prior to the Russian spacewalk.      [Aki had to restow and secure some cargo bags, make sure that no temporary items are left in ATV and verify that straps and buckles in racks and on adapter plates were firmly secured.  This is required because ATV3 needs to be in a safe configuration in case of contingency undocking and return.]
 
Before sleeptime, Akihiko started his 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the ESA/German experiment CRHYT (Circadian Rhythms), instrumenting himself with the Thermolab Double Sensors, mounting the Thermolab Control Unit in the belt, then connecting &amp; powering on the control unit for the next 36 hours during which the equipment is worn.  (Deferred from 8/15).       [The main objective of the experiment is to get a better basic understanding of any alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights.  Such knowledge will not only provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.  The Circadian Rhythms experiment is performed over 3 days (from Day 1 to Day 3) and involves:  Instrumentation (Day 1); 36-hrs continuous measurement (Day 1 + 2 + 3), and De-instrumentation (Day 3).  On-orbit measurements are planned for FD 15, FD30 and then at 30 day intervals until return.  During day 1, the instrumentation is performed late in the afternoon. This consists of donning the Thermolab Double Sensors at the forehead and sternum positions. By powering on the Thermolab Control Unit the 36 hours measurement is started.  During day 2, the Thermolab Control Unit will measure throughout the day. No interaction is required other than confirming the Thermolab Control Unit is measuring by checking the display from time to time.
 
FE-3 undertook the periodic manual fill of the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) EDV-SV (condensate container) flush water tank from the PWB (Potable Water Bus) for about 15 min, a partial fill during which WHC was not available.
 
Suni Williams had ~90 min set aside on her schedule for troubleshooting the failed ISSAC (ISS Agricultural Camera) laptop in the Lab.
 
USOS crewmembers Acaba, Williams &amp; Hoshide conducted a joint procedures review of the US EVA-18, scheduled on 8/30, using uplinked documentary material including briefing package, procedures list, crib sheet, latest changes, robotics big picture and DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) setup, etc.
 
Afterwards, Joe, Aki &amp; Suni also conducted a one-hour review of POC (Portable Onboard Computers) DOUG software for EVA-18.    [EVA-18 objectives are: Connect &amp; route several MLM power cables, remove failed MBSU (Main Bus Switching Unit) and replace with spare MBSU, install failed MBSU in stbd ESP-1 FSE (External Stowage Platform 1 Flight Support Equipment), remove failed SSRMS boom CLPA (Camera, Light, Pan, Tilt Assembly) and replace with spare CLPA.  Get-aheads (time permitting): Install PMA-2 cover, remove &amp; replace MBS (Mobile Base System) mast camera, retrieve JEF VE (JEM Exposed Facility Vision Equipment) fwd camera, troubleshoot FGB PDGF (Power &amp; Data Grapple Fixture), and stow WIF (Worksite Interface Fixture) EX.]
 
On MCC-Houston Go, Suni later reconnected five deployed and powered PCS laptops, in support of the Primary C&amp;C (Command&amp; Control) software transition activity performed by the ground team.
 
Joe had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC.   [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
At ~3:55am EDT, the six crewmembers held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Main Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~8:15am, Sergei Revin linked up with TsUP-Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~10:00am, Joe Acaba conducted the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
At ~3:30pm, the crew will hold their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-Houston.
<a name="_GoBack"></a> 
Before exercising on the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill, Hoshide set up and checked out the G1 video camera for it to record his workout session on the machine, meeting the regular 30-day requirement for biomechanical evaluation of the on-orbit crewmembers, and evaluation of the hardware status.  Afterwards, Aki stowed the video footage.
 
The crew worked out on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-4).      [FE-5 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Friday.  If any day is not completed, Suni pick up where she left off, i.e., she would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day.  Tomorrow, her SPRINT exercise will start with ARED/CEVIS (resistive/aerobic continuous), with T2 (aerobic 4 min), ARED/CEVIS, T2 (aerobic, interval 30s), ARED/T2 and T2 (Kinematics, 2 min) in the following 5 days.] 
 
Tasks listed for Revin, Malenchenko &amp; Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Chongqing, China (nadir pass. This sprawling megacity of more than 29 million has a metropolitan area of 910 square miles), Victoria, Seychelles (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION:  Nadir pass.   Victoria, the capital of the Republic of Seychelles, is located on the northeastern side of Mahe Island, the largest island of the archipelago. The Seychelles are a continental fragment stranded in the western Indian Ocean in the wake of India's plate tectonic movement away from Africa), Baku, Azerbaijan (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION:  Nadir pass. The capital city of Azerbaijan [population of just over 2 million] is located on the south side of a prominent peninsula which juts into the Caspian Sea), Chiloe Island, southern Chile (HMS BEAGLE SITE:   Looking right. Clear slot expected. Trying for context views of the whole island. Darwin and the Beagle arrived at this large, rugged and forested island on June 12, 1834. The expedition surveyed the west coast, gathered provisions and left the next day), and Paramaribo, Suriname (WORLD CAPITALS COLLECTION:  Looking just left for single-frame views of this small city [population ~250,000].  Paramaribo is located just inland from the coast on the west bank of the Suriname River estuary).
 

