
SpaceX (SpX)-12 Capture and Berthing: SpX-12 rendezvous and capture were successfully completed today  at 5:54 AM CDT using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). The crew monitored Dragon’s approach from the Cupola Robotic Workstation. Vestibule outfitting, vehicle ingress and critical cargo transfer began following capture.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 3:  The crew retrieved LMM Biophysics 3 Plate 1 from the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) and placed it into a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker / INcubator (MERLIN).  The LMM was placed in the FIR on Monday to begin the science run.  Using the three-dimensional structure of proteins, scientists can determine how they function and how they are involved in disease. Some proteins benefit from being crystallized in microgravity, where they can grow larger and with fewer imperfections. Access to crystals grown on the ISS supports research for a wide range of diseases, as well as microgravity-related problems such as radiation damage, bone loss and muscle atrophy. This investigation identifies which proteins would benefit from crystallization in space.
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire for this investigation which seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI)-1 Anomaly:  Overnight during the crew sleep period, the Electronics Unit (EU) for MELFI-1 experienced an anomaly. Following crew wake, science samples were successfully relocated to alternate MELFI units without issue.  Ground teams are working a forward plan to replace the MELFI-1 EU with an on orbit spare.
NeuroMapping: The crew was unable to perform the Neuromapping assessments today due to a software fault that caused the laptop to lock up. Ground experts are investigating the anomaly.

