
Mouse Epigenetics Cage Unit Maintenance: The crew completed standard maintenance activities for the Mouse Epigenetics experiment by refilling the Transportation Cage Units with water and checking the water nozzles of the individual cages. The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew spent most of the day preparing for tomorrow’s EVA,  completing the following:

Configured/audited tools and prepared the Equipment Lock (EL), Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) and ancillary hardware.
Removed/relocated stowage from the Node 2 forward port endcone to access the forward International Docking Adapter (IDA) control panel.
Set up the IDA control panel and 2 multimeters for the Modified Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (MAPAS) installation.
Copied EMU/Airlock contingency procedures to their iPads in the event the Station Support Computer (SSC) goes down.
Pre-EVA health check.
Pre-EVA conference with ground teams.

International Docking Adapter (IDA): Ground controllers used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to inspect the sealing surface of IDA2, and then successfully extracted the IDA from the Dragon trunk overnight.   There was a delay in the removal when a tethered pyro bolt from the Latch B Flight Support Equipment (FSE) floated very close to the IDA handrail.  A video inspection of the handrail confirmed that the tether was not looped around or through the handrail.  The ground team continued with the IDA extraction but the FSE bolt interfered with the bottom of the handrail and the IDA structure.   The FSE bolt was freed after a sequence of adjustments with the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) robotic arm.  The adjustments were very minor and positive margin between the IDA and Dragon were verified prior to each adjustments.  The IDA was maneuvered to position for the installation on Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA) 2 during the spacewalk tomorrow morning. 
MERLIN-1 False Fire Indication:  MERLIN-1 was unpowered following a false fire indication.  Crew members took Compound Specific Analyzer- Combustion Products (CSA-CP) readings which were all zero.  Ground teams are investigating the cause.  No loss of science was incurred, as MERLIN-1 is located in the Node 1 Galley area and is used primarily for crew preference items.

