
Payloads:
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR): The crew gained access to the CIR and continued troubleshooting efforts on the Input/Output Processor (IOP). Today’s troubleshooting was designed to force the IOP to start up from a different boot-up script than was previously used, but was not successful. CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity. CIR currently has the Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE) combustion module installed. SoFIE enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations.
eXploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): An Adlink Mini PC was deployed for use with the upcoming xPWD operations. The current on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. The new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Space Health (SH): An experiment questionnaire was filled out for the SH 48-hour experiment session. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA): The SUBSA calibration ampoule was removed, and the first Multi-physical Properties of Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (ugGA) science sample was installed. The ugGA investigation seeks to create a graphene aerogel on the ISS. Microgravity is expected to alleviate effects of Earth’s gravity, such as agglomeration, sedimentation, and thermal convection, and enable production of a superior, uniform material structure. This research could lay the groundwork for the engineering of bulk quantities of graphene aerogel with exceptional physical properties for applications in power storage, environmental protection, and chemical sensing.
Vascular Aging: Blood pressure measurements were performed in support of the multi-day Vascular Aging experiment. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Charcoal and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew performed R&Rs of the expended charcoal and HEPA filters in Node 2 and 3. Additionally, while in the area, the crew cleaned the smoke detectors. The installation of the charcoal and HEPA filters is to assist in scrubbing the volatile siloxanes and other particles from the air before they reach the Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Heat Exchanger (HX).
Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Battery Checkout: The crew performed a checkout of the Extravehicular Activity (EVA) SAFER by verifying the GN2 %, PWR %, BATT V, and documenting potential battery discharge data. This data will then be downlinked to the ground for the team to analyze. The SAFER is a single string system designed for EVA rescue purposes. 
Food Consolidate: The crew consolidated the PMM food bags to ensure the crew has easy access to food while also helping to reduce the overall stowage footprint in the PMM. Crew time is often allocated toward stowage management to maintain safety, organization, and habitability.
IFM Cupola Scratch Pane 5 R&R: The crew removed the Scratch Pane at Cupola Window 5 and replaced it with an Acrylic Scratch Pane. Additionally, the crew documented photos of the newly installed Acrylic Scratch Pane and examined the work area for any Foreign Object Debris (FOD) before finally stowing the tools and materials used for this activity. The Cupola provides an observation and work area for the ISS crew giving visibility to support the control of the International Space Station remote manipulator system and general external viewing of Earth, celestial objects and visiting vehicles.
