
Mouse Epigenetics Cage Unit Maintenance: The crew completed standard maintenance for the Mouse Epigenetics experiment by refilling the Transportation Cage Units and Mouse Habitat Cage Unit with water and checking the water nozzles of the individual cages. The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
NanoRacks Platforms-1 Module Removal: Four NanoRacks Modules were removed from NanoRacks Platform 1 and installed in the Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  NanoRacks Modules 43 (Slime Mold), 44 (Awty-Yeast Cell Growth in a Microgravity Environment), 45 (Duchesne-Light Wavelengths on Algae Production), and 46 (Duchesne-Plant Growth Chamber) will remain in MELFI until they return on SpX-9.
At Home in Space Questionnaire: The CDR completed a questionnaire for the At Home in Space investigation. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) experiment assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the space craft by creating a home in space. 
NeuroMapping Operations: The crew performed testing in both a “strapped in” and ”free floating” body configuration for this investigation which studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Fluid Shifts Hardware Transfer and Service Module Setup: To prepare for Ultrasound activities in the Service Module (SM) this week, the crew transferred and set up hardware that supports the Fluid Shifts investigation from the Russian Segment. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures. 
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet was completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation which tests skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. The crewmember’s fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed a procedures review in preparation for next Friday’s planned International Docking Adapter (IDA)2 EVA. Topics covered included prebreathe protocol review, Equipment Lock activities and suit donning plan, egress/ingress plan and EVA extension considerations. Following the review the crew participatet in a debrief with ground teams to discuss questions or concerns. The crew also verified that the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) glove heaters are functional and that the EMU TV is receiving power from the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA).
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC): This morning the crew reported the WHC fan powered off during use which was followed by a “Check Separator Light” illumination. The crew performed the standard troubleshooting procedure to clear the Check Separator Light. The WHC was returned to normal use upon completion of the malfunction procedure.  Additionally, the crew reported they have been seeing the “Check Separator Light” on previous use. The engineering team has scheduled a coordination meeting tomorrow to discuss these developments.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation:  Today, ground controllers moved the MSS MT from work station 4 to workstation 6 in preparation for the removal of IDA2 from the SpaceX-9 trunk on Wednesday, and the installation of IDA2 onto PMA2 during the EVA on Friday.
LA Multiplexer/De-multiplexer (MDM) Patch – Ground Controllers successfully loaded a patch to the LA 1 MDM in preparation for IDA installation.
Payload MDM Transition – Ground Controllers were performing a scheduled PLMDM-2 High Rate Data Link (HRDL) reset which resulted in a complete lockup of the PLMDM-2 HRDL card.  To recover from the HRDL card lockup, ground controllers performed a PLMDM transition.  PLMDM-1 was subsequently powered ON and reconfigured as the primary PLMDM.  All payload Health and Status (H&S) indications pre- and post-recovery were nominal.  The PLMDM transition resulted in a loss of Health and Status for ~57 minutes. 

