
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2): The crew collected saliva and blood samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation. MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period. After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Marrow: A crewmember collected air samples for CSA’s Marrow investigation today.  Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. 
Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) 13:  The crew set up the PCG 13 investigation hardware and prepared the sample tubes to fill the PCG Card wells. CASIS PCG 13 seeks to enhance the way crystals are grown in a microgravity environment by allowing crew members to observe imperfections within a crystal and make real-time adjustments to follow-up experiments, rather than returning a sample to Earth and relaunching to try again. This dramatically reduces the time it takes to conduct an experiment aboard the space station and creates a timely, realistic and more cost-effective solution for prospective researchers. 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): The crew set up the sample image, mixed all ten samples, and took photos of the sample.  BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles.  Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration
MarconISSta: The crew set up the MarconISSta in the Columbus module and connected it to the Amateur Radio for the International Space Station (ARISS) antennas. ESA’s MarconISSta investigation is a radio spectrum analyzer which monitors parts of the radio frequency spectrum in VHF, UHF, L, and S band in order to analyze current use and availability of bands for satellite communication. 
Barrios Protein Crystal Growth (PCG):  Today the crew retrieved a Barrios PCG microplate from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), mixed the solutions in a crystallization plate and inserted the samples into the Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL).  Barrios PCG focuses on the successful transfer and mixing of different solutions into commercial off-the-shelf multiwell plates. Video of the growth of the protein crystals in the multiwell plates will be downlinked for evaluation. 
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R) with Fan Filter Cleaning: This morning the crew R&R the PWD’s Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) water filter. While they had access to this ORU, they also cleaned the exhaust fans outlets on the rear of the PWD. Both the fan cleaning and filter R&R are regularly scheduled preventative maintenance and are required to keep the PWD system functioning nominally.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit: Today the crew performed an audit to verify that the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), and Pre-Breathe Masks are all free of damage functioning nominally. The crew also conducted Quick Don Mask (QDM) Harness Maintenance and recorded the hardware serial numbers, or barcodes, and locations of each item. This audit is a regularly scheduled task and is required every 365 days.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Tonight robotic ground controllers will maneuver the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) as required to stow the Robotic Offset Tool (ROST) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator. Both ROST and SPDM were used during last week’s HTV-7 Battery Remove and Replace (R&R) Get-Ahead tasks. 
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event: Space Center Houston, the Johnson Space Center, and Microsoft have partnered together to provide a YouthSpark Live activity for students from the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Houston. Today, Ricky Arnold participated in the event and answered various questions from the approximately 150 students in attendance. YouthSpark is an immersive event designed to empower young people interested in positively impacting the world through the pursuit of careers in Science Technology Engineering Arts and Mathematics (STEM). 

