
Payloads:
Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4: An Astrobee flight and technical feasibility rehearsal was performed in preparation of the Kibo Robot Programming Challenge 4 final round event. Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 is an educational competition for students in the Asia-Pacific region. The students are tasked to create a program that demonstrates accurate control of Astrobee. The Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 is planned for September.
Standard Measures: UAE video was recorded with Astronaut Sultan Al Neyadi to demonstrate the functions and tasks of the Standard Measures study. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
StemCellEX-H Pathfinder: Thaw Bags were retrieved and inserted into the Space Automated Lab Incubator-2 (SALI-2) facility for warming. Hematopoietic Stem Cell Expansion in Space: Pathfinder Investigation (StemCellEX-H Pathfinder) tests methods for producing human hematopoietic stem cells in space. Hematopoietic stem cells give rise to blood and immune cells and have potential as treatments for patients with blood diseases and cancers. Producing them in space could lead to the ability to produce greater numbers of stem cells with superior attributes for clinical use than is currently possible on the ground.
STEMonstrations: A video demonstration of Angular Momentum was recorded in support of the STEMonstrations study. STEMonstrations are short, three-to-five minute educational videos that demonstrate popular K-12 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) topics in microgravity. ISS crew members conduct the demonstrations and film the video and each STEMonstration includes materials to help teachers explore the topics in their classrooms
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules-Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (SUBSA-ugGA): Ampoule sample #5 was installed into the SUBSA Thermal Chamber. Examination of the Multi-physical Properties of Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (SUBSA-ugGA) seeks to create a graphene aerogel on the ISS. Microgravity is expected to alleviate effects of Earth’s gravity, such as agglomeration, sedimentation, and thermal convection, and enable production of a superior, uniform material structure. This research could lay the groundwork for the engineering of bulk quantities of graphene aerogel with exceptional physical properties for applications in power storage, environmental protection, and chemical sensing.
Z-Camera Virtual Reality (ZCAM VR) Livestream: Crew reviewed procedures for an upcoming Crew conference using the ZCAM VR hardware. Felix & Paul Studios (FPS) ZCAM VR Livestream demonstrates livestreaming of 360-degree VR video from the ISS to audiences on the ground. The project uses hardware that recorded 4K immersive video and audio for “Space Explorers: ISS Experience,” adding new software capabilities and an expanded ground segment. The VR livestream provides people on the ground the opportunity to immerse themselves in the world of crewmembers on the orbiting lab.
Systems:
Airlock Stowage Platform (ASP) Replacement: Following yesterday’s installation of the new Airlock Overhead Stowage Platform, the crew installed closeout panels and the Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) O2 Recharge Tanks. With the NORS tank installed, the crew initiated a transfer of O2 gas from the NORS tank to the ISS Airlock oxygen tanks via equalization. The older Stowage Platform is being replaced in order to increase stowage volume in the Airlock.
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Wring Collector (COT), Air Hose Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of preventive maintenance, the crew performed an R&R of the COT air hose. The function of the COT is to collect any liquid downstream of the waste collector or the pump separator, and the downstream Liquid Indicator detects whether any liquid is coming from the COT. The air hoses remove air humidity in the COT.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) AC Dry Vacuum Cleaner R&R: The crew replaced a debris bag and filters to return the AC Dry Vacuum Cleaner to service following Hazard Level 1 cleanup operations.
Transfer Crew Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring Crew-6 cargo prepack from ISS to the PMA2 in support of handover preparations. Crew-6 is scheduled to undock in September and will return crew, cargo, and payloads to the ground.
