
Bio-Monitor: A crewmember removed and stowed the Garment hardware. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To address this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc. 
Micro-15: The crew performed the Session A2 of the Drug Injections into Micro-15 Culture bags which were then placed back and incubation facility. The goal of this investigation is to better understand the effects of gravity on the differentiation of mammalian cells using 3-D cultures of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. Past flight experiments and ground-based simulations have demonstrated that microgravity influences gene expression, cell proliferation, and differentiation in stem cells but the mechanism behind these observations is not clearly understood. This study investigates how exposure to microgravity fundamentally alters cell regulation and how these changes can affect the timing, progression, and outcomes of cell differentiation. 
International Docking Adapter (IDA)3 Extravehicular Activity (EVA): In preparation for the IDA3 EVA scheduled for next Wednesday, August 21, the completed the following:

EVA procedure conference with ground teams
Equipment Lock preparation
EMU 3008 On-orbit Fit Check Verification (OFV)
Cuff checklist print 

Thermal Amine Blower Motor Removal:  Following several Thermal Amine blower motor overcurrent failures this year, the crew successfully removed the blower motor today.  The unit was then packed and will be returned on SpX-18 for potential refurbishment. Thermal Amine System tests a method to remove carbon dioxide (CO2) from air aboard the ISS, using actively heated and cooled amine beds.  Carbon Dioxide Removal Assemblies (CDRA) are operating nominally and remain the primary method for removing CO2 from ISS atmosphere.

