
Payloads
Astrobee:  The crew removed the Perching Arm from an Astrobee Freeflyer Honey in preparation of ReSWARM operations.  Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Cell Gravisensing:  A crewmember performed a closeout of the Confocal Space Microscopy for Cell Gravisensing Experiment.  The Elucidation of the Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation studies how cells sense gravity.  While recent research has revealed that individual animal cells can detect gravity, the mechanism for this sensing is largely unknown.  This investigation analyzes changes in tension in cell stress fibers during spaceflight as a possible mechanism.
Lumina (Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter):  A crewmember installed the LUMINA device in front of the European Physiology Module (EPM) rack, and performed data transfer and parameter calibrations via the EveryWear App using the crew iPad.  Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation.  The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  In preparation for the IROSA 4A preparation EVA currently scheduled for August 24th, the crew completed the EVA Procedure Reviews, IROSA Mod Kit 1 Unpack and Stow in EVA bag, EVA Procedure Conference, EVA SAFER VRT and EVA Tool Configuration.
Node 3 Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) 5 Power Cable W3727 Connector Troubleshooting:  Today, the crew performed troubleshooting steps on the Node 3 UOP5, during which the DDCUs N31B and N34A were powered off. The troubleshooting was completed, and the N3 UOP5 checkout was successful. The N3 UOP5 was installed on GMT 127, but was no joy upon powerup. Voltage and resistance checks were done on GMT 188 and showed that there was no voltage at the connectors and infinite resistance which indicated that the cable was either damaged or not connected at the RPCM. UOPs aboard the ISS are used to provide power and data connectivity to portable equipment. 
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER): As part of the EVA Prep, the EVA crew performed their SAFER training by utilizing the VRT equipment. This lesson provides a review of the SAFER components and procedures, as well as hands-on experience in a virtual reality environment using SAFER to perform self-rescue operations.

