ISS On-Orbit Status 08/11/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
  Upon wakeup, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Kopra, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 DeWinne continued their new session of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment, logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  Early in the morning, FE-1 Barratt &amp; FE-3 Romanenko began their workday before breakfast with the periodic session of the Russian biomedical routine assessments PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement.     [MO-7 Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures.]
 
  Mike Barratt completed Day 4 of his daily diet monitoring for the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment, which entails a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings in two session blocks.  Barratt also temporarily set up the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) for determining his body mass.     [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Mike will have to eat special diet (Session 1: High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level and Session 2: Low salt diet).  Solo Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are being logged on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  SOLO, an ESA/German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Blood samples are taken with the PCBA.  Background:  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
  FE-3 Romanenko conducted a session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment.  CDR Padalka provided assistance.  It was Roman’s third MBI-15 run.  Afterwards, the Pilot-M &amp; Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled and stowed away, and Roman discussed the session in a teleconference with ground personnel at ~7:20am EDT.    [MBI-15 requires a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO &amp; RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]
 
  After wakeup, CDR Padalka powered on the Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> scrubber to Mode 5.  Like last night, Romanenko turned the device off again later before sleeptime to allow switchover to software Vers. 8.03 for restart.
 
  Barratt &amp; DeWinne completed Day 2 of their series of proficiency training sessions (OBT/Onboard Training) for Exp 20 on the HTV (H2 Transfer Vehicle) mission profile, the HTV Rendezvous crew procedures, and the HCP (Hardware Command Panel) for controlling the HTV.  Today’s activity was a video-supported ROBoT training session, focusing on the 30m-through-capture timeline, followed by a debriefing for Mike &amp; Frank.  [ROBoT uses DOUG (Dynamic Operations Ubiquitous Graphics) software, a hand controller and two laptops (one for graphics, one for the simulation) for on-orbit training of MSS (Mobile Service System) and SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) operations.  For the HTV1 grappling/berthing, there are five HTV1 OBT events this week.  The first event, yesterday, was a new HTV computer-based training OBT. The lesson walked through the H1 steps in the rendezvous procedures and provided representative RWS (Robotics Workstation) and PCS (Portable Computer System) screenshots for each step.  In addition, the lesson gave an overview of the HTV commands that are available to the crew and explained how to execute the commands via both the HCP and the HTV PCS pages.  The second event, also yesterday, was a crew conference to discuss any questions remaining from the HTV OBT.  The third event, tomorrow, is a conference with Frank DeWinne and Nicole Stott.  Finally, the last event, 8/14, is a ROBoT “mini-Sim” with a subset of the FCT (Flight Control Team), focusing on the integrated objectives and timeline from ~300m through capture.]
 
  Barratt’s ROBoT activity included preparation and mounting of RWS DCP (Robotic Workstation Display &amp; Control Panel) decals. 
 
  In further preparation of CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware relocation (Part B), FE-2 Kopra cleaned out the LAB1S4 space, using the IMS (Inventory Management System) to keep track of moves.
 
  In Node-1, Timothy Kopra cleaned all SD2 smoke detectors of the FDS (Fire Detection &amp; Suppression) system.
 
  FE-3 Romanenko began a major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) in the SM (Service Module), removing old SMOK condensate lines of the SOTR Thermal Control System and replacing them with new spares (last time done: September 2008).    [Roman had an hour to collect and prepare new pipelines, connectors, T-joints and all necessary tooling, then completed Part 1, replacing condensate line components between the SKV2 air conditioner and the NOK2 condensate pump.  More to follow tomorrow.  The R&amp;R involves about 20 flexible hoses (ZSMOK) and line components.]
 
  FE-4 Thirsk conducted Day 1 of his third two-day ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) session, accompanied by CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on Return from the ISS).  Frank DeWinne again assisted with equipment donning and some picture taking.    [Bob donned the Actiwatches (two for ICV, one for CCISS) and the Holter Monitor 2 for ECG (Electrocardiogram) for the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring mode plus also the CCIS Baro Study, wearing the ESA Cardiopres (CDPB).  The latter is a portable instrument to monitor and store finger arterial blood pressure, a full 12-derivations ECG, and chest circumference changes, all measured continuously for up to 24 hours or longer under ambulatory conditions, using air pressure to inflate finger cuffs for measuring blood pressure, ECG cables, plus two respiratory belts for recording thoracic and abdominal chest circumference changes. For the CCIS Baro study of CCIS, heart rate and blood pressure are recorded for resting and timed breathing for 5 min, with no caffeine or food allowed (water is acceptable) two hours before the start of the Baro Study and no exercise prior to the Baro Study.  The Makita power tool batteries were charged during the day.]
 
  FE-4 Thirsk performed the periodic WPA (Water Processor Assembly) sample analysis in the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged for calldown.   [The current procedure is a work-around for TOCA’s failed catalyst.]
 
  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Bob switched on the JPM PROX (Proximity Communication System).
 
  Also in the Kibo Module, Thirsk prepared for CQ (Crew Quarters) installation in JPM during Mission 17A by relocating a knee brace from the JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment, JLP1F1) to loc. JPM1D3.
 
  CDR Padalka continued his support of the software transition to SM 8.03 going on in the RS (Russian Segment).    [All preparation activities have been completed.  TsVM (Central Computer) and TVM (Terminal Computer) systems in the SM were restarted, with all three channels of each re-established.  Tonight, TsUP-Moscow will load the pre-positioned program (cyclogram) for loading software and tomorrow morning will restart the TsVM and TVM to activate SM 8.03.]
 
  With the US OGS (Oxygen Generator System) currently down, Gennady in the course of the day ignited three SFOG (Solid Fuel Oxygen Generator) “candles” in the RS, turning off the O<sub>2</sub> generation box fan ~1-2 hrs after each ignition.
 
  Frank DeWinne continued replenishing the Icepacs in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) by inserting two more +4C Icepac belts into MELFI.   [The Icepacs were originally removed as part of 2J/A packing.  Nine additional activities spaced at least 24 hours apart are being planned over the next two weeks, each time inserting two Icepac belts (to prevent temperature increase inside the MELFI.]
 
  Frank also supported the SSRMS MSS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System / Mobile Service System) software Vers. 6.1 checkout currently going on.    [SSRMS checkout operations are to confirm Hot Backup, with Safing, E-stop and simulated power failure tests.  Hot Backup is working but had some technical issues.  A “failed prime string” message failed at startup.  The ground team tried twice to recover and is pressing ahead with the remainder of operations while specialists investigate the problem and try again tomorrow.]
 
  In the Node-2, DeWinne unlatched the nadir port hatch in preparation for the arrival of the MPLM (Multipurpose Logistics Module) on Mission STS-128/17A.
 
  Barratt, Kopra, Thirsk &amp; DeWinne conducted a joint review of the uplinked 17A cargo transfer list.
 
  Gennady completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Roman did the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
  CDR, FE-3 &amp; FE-4 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Gennady at ~1:40pm, Roman at ~2:50pm, Bob at ~1:25pm EDT.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3). 
 
  Later, Tim Kopra transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
  Before sleep time, Padalka set up the Russian MBI-12 SONOKARD payload and start his eighth experiment session, using a sports shirt from the SONOKARD kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
  Before sleeptime, Romanenko turned the Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> scrubber off, to be restarted tomorrow on software upgrade Vers. 8.03.
 
  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/" title="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 
