
NanoRack CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD) Operations:  Last night the ground team deployed 4 Cosmogia Dove CubeSats via the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS).  Four additional CubeSats are scheduled for deployment tonight.
Sprint Ultrasound: With help from Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman, Commander (CDR) Swanson took Sprint ultrasound data for his Flight Day (FD) 150 ultrasound Sprint session. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are on FD 14, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and R-7 for mission duration of six months and are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
Body Measures: With help from Swanson, Wiseman conducted his FD 80 session of Body Measures. He set up body marker instrumentation and took calibration and body pose pictures along with circumference measurements. He also recorded a neutral body posture video. The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight. Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Aquatic Habitat Set Up: FE-6 Gerst installed two cameras and assembled a water circulation unit into the Work Volume of the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the JEM. This is in preparation for Zebra Fish to be delivered in Increment 41.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Canada 1 (C1) Sample 7: Wiseman homogenized cuvette samples and set the camera intervalometer to start a two week run for Sample 7. The experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds, and food products. These suspensions have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity allows the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. The study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Version 5 (v5) Transition: All six crew members participated in a conference with ground teams to discuss reload activities and expectations. The crew also configured the SSC laptops for the ground commanded transition which begins tonight.
Cargo Operations: Gerst began pre-packing US cargo for the 38 Soyuz (38S) return in September.  Gerst, Wiseman and Swanson resumed transferring cargo from Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 to the ISS following yesterday’s ATV hatch re-opening.
Cupola Window 2 Micrometeoroid Orbital Debris (MMOD) Strike:  During the Cygnus viewing activity on Sunday, the crew noted an MMOD strike on Cupola Window 2 and took images for ground review.  Today the crew confirmed this strike has not been previously reported. It measures approximately 8 mm in diameter and appears to be contained to the debris pane. The crew took additional photographs and were directed to keep the shutter closed when the window is not in use. Engineering teams are assessing the additional information and imagery.

