ISS On-Orbit Status 08/24/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 <a name="_GoBack"></a>
At wakeup, CDR Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Upon wakeup, FE-5 Sunita Williams &amp; FE-6 Akihiko Hoshide completed their post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, the 15<sup>th</sup> for the two of them.       [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
FE-4 Malenchenko terminated his 2<sup>nd</sup> Sonocard experiment session, started last night with Gennady taking documentary photography, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
Before breakfast &amp; exercise, Padalka, Revin &amp; Malenchenko each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test MO-10 "Hematokrit", which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  Sergei then stowed the equipment.  It was the 2<sup>nd</sup> session for Gennady &amp; Sergei, the first for Yuri.       [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its Hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]
 
FE-6 Hoshide downloaded the accumulated data from his recent (8/22) 2<sup>nd</sup> 24-hr ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session from two Actiwatch Spectrums and two HM2 HiFi CF Cards to the HRF PC1 (Human Research Facility Portable Computer 1).  The laptop was then powered off.      [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]
 
FE-3 Acaba filled out his standard FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MDLT (Medical Laptop). It was Joe’s 12<sup>th</sup>.        [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MDLT software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
Afterwards, Joe completed another weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of continuing WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.     [The current (32-0027F) lists 13 CWCs (264.9 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (5 CWCs with 214 5 L);  2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 14.0 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (3 CWCs with 36.4 L); and 4. Waste water (1 empty bag EMU waste water).  Also one leaky CWC (#1024) with 8.5 L, stowed in ATV3 for disposal.  No bags with Wautersia bacteria.  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] 
 
Acaba also took precise hardware setup photos of the BCAT (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test)-C1 experiment per CSA (Canadian Space Agency) procedure, transferring the images to SSC (Station Support Computer) for ground-commanded downlink.     [Video from the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) INT-Stbd camera was also downlinked live during AOS (Acquisition of Signal).]
 
Later, FE-3 collected the periodic water sample from the condensate line in Node-3 after connecting the condensate tank to the line to build pressure before drawing the sample.     [Required were two line purges with 300mL each and one 300mL sample, for return on Soyuz 30S.]
 
Joe also cleaned and lubricated the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) beverage adapter to restore functionality.      [Documentary photographs were taken, showing “showing rust and buildup that does not come off.”]
 
After performing the usual MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) visual inspection and activation, FE-5 Williams prepared the facility for new experiment operations by removing the BASS (Burning and Suppression of Solids) hardware from its WV (work volume) for stowage.
 
Next, Sunita had ~3 hrs set aside (but required an additional hour) for configuring MSG and installing InSPACE3 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 3) hardware for upcoming operations.      [Installed in the WV were InSPACE Optics Assembly and InSPACE hardware, followed by connecting cables, setting up the MSG video system, InSPACE-3 coil assembly, vial assembly and video tapes.  Activities were photographed by Joe Acaba and also downlinked live via video camcorder during AOS and recorded during LOS (Loss of Signal).]
 
Akihiko Hoshide meanwhile performed the periodic inventory/audit of HRF (Human Research Facility) supply kits (purple &amp; green) and also took documentary photos.       [HRF supplies include consumables such as gloves, wipes, gauze, batteries, medical items, etc.]
 
Yuri Malenchenko completed his 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20) using the Neurolab-2000M facility, setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 T61p laptop, supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band (UKV).         [Sergei Revin stood by to assist Yuri in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit plus taking documentary photography.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
Sergei Revin concluded his first session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2-2 protocol which monitors human cardiovascular performance in the space flight environment.       [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Sergei doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
Malenchenko started his first session of the 24-hr PZE MO-2-2 cardiovascular assessment.
 
Yuri also supported the ground-commanded initiation of the first repressurization of the cabin atmosphere with gas from ATV3 tankage, for about 2h 30min.     [FE-4 was told to reorient the AED (Air Exhaust Duct) outlet towards the GCP (Gas Control Panel) to maximize airflow to the GCP base since photos had shown that AED was not oriented suitably.]
 
Revin completed major IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) on the Russian SEP Electrical Power System in the SM, first demating the BITS2-12 TMI telemetry connectors, then removing one of the RT-50-1M current regulators (A201) of the SEP electrical power system behind panel 126 and replacing it with a new unit from FGB stowage.  For the R&amp;R, RT-50-1M unit A203 had also to be removed temporarily and then re-installed after the new spare.  TMI was then reconnected, with BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system unpowered and VD-SU control mode transitioned.     [A201 had run out of service life. There are 12 RT-50-1Ms, which receive and regulate the current from the solar arrays, one for each solar array module.  They stabilize the voltage at 28.5 V on the main bus assembly (BSSh).  Each current regulator has a transistor switch that can be in one of three states: closed, open, or pulse-width modulation.  As the electrical load increases, the regulators are opened automatically in succession from 1 to 12.  After all of them are opened, the eight storage batteries (AB), with their ZRU charge/discharge units, are automatically connected to the bus.  As the electrical load on the BSSh decreases, the current regulators are closed in reverse order.]  
 
Meanwhile, Gennady Padalka performed troubleshooting on the TEKh-39 LCS (Russian: SLS) Laser Communication System to determine the root cause of current protection trips when power is applied to a feed line of the BTLS-N1 External Onboard Laser Communication Terminal.
 
Later, the CDR performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Gennady also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance from the discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Sergei worked on the BTKh-26 KASKAD experiment, extracting the top of the bioreactor (#6) from the TBU-V incubator (+29 degC), shaking it with “moderately strong” movements for 2 minutes without taking it out of the case and inserting it again in TBU-V.      [Started yesterday, this activity is being carried out for 21 days, once in the morning and once in the evening.]
 
As a final post-EVA activity, Yuri disassembled &amp; removed the SSVP docking mechanism on the Progress M-16M/48P cargo ship from the DC1 and installed the two ruchek handles on the external (front) side of the hatch cover.
 
Acaba, Williams &amp; Hoshide conducted a joint 1h 15min review of the upcoming US EVA-18 on 8/30, discussing spacewalk details, Robotics procedures and DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) setup.  The CDR joined in for part of the review.
 
Before Presleep, FE-3 Acaba turns on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Joe turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
At ~4:00am EDT, the six crewmembers held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Main Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~4:15am, Gennady Padalka linked up with TsUP-Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~5:35am, Aki &amp; Joe conferred with ground personnel on the proposed JAXA EPO (Education Program Operation) “Unwinding” experiment, which uses two G1 HD camcorders to record free onboard conversations, plus questionnaires for filling out by the crew.  Today’s scheduled “Unwinding” activities were deferred to a later time.      [Objective is for the crew to explore the relationships between human beings and space through analysis of how astronauts converse &amp; relax in space, create a relaxed state, play with a ball, and evaluate the volumes and impressions of the space on the questionnaire.  Later, the astronauts’ use of space while conducting the same movements &amp; conversations in both the orbital Kibo module and its ground mockup will be analyzed, with quantity &amp; quality of both data sets compared &amp; analyzed, and the differences between people’s senses of space in space and on the ground will be clarified.  For the future, it is expected that the results will suggest ways of designing a comfortable living space in space, improving the quality of life in space and exploring new ways of designing space on the ground.]
 
At ~8:45am, Joe Acaba conducted the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
At ~12:30pm, Sunita had her regular weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
At ~2:30pm, Joe &amp; Aki conducted a teleconference with Robotics specialists on the ground to discuss spacewalk/SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) particulars. 
 
At ~3:25pm, the crew held their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
The crew worked out on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [FE-6 &amp; FE-5 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Friday.  If any day is not completed, Suni &amp; Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day.  Today, Suni had no exercise tomorrow.  Her protocol for the next 7 days shows ARED (resistive)/T2 (aerobic continuous) for tomorrow, and T2 (2 min, interval), ARED/CEVIS (aerobic, cont.), T2 (30sec, int.), ARED (video)/CEVIS, EVA-18, and T2 (4 min, int.) for the next 6 days.  Aki’s protocol shows ARED/T2 for today, with T2 (2 min, int.), ARED/CEVIS, T2 (30sec/int), ARED/CEVIS, T2 (4 min, int.), and EVA-18 on the fo9llowing 6 days.]
 
Joe Acaba conducted today’s session on the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill with the Treadmill Kinematics protocol, his 4<sup>th</sup> time, setting up the HD camcorder in Node-1, placing tape markers on her body, recording a calibration card in the FOV (Field of View) and then conducting the workout run within a specified speed range.  The video was later downlinked by Joe via MPC.       [Purpose of the Kinematics T2 experiment is to collect quantitative data by motion capture from which to assess current exercise prescriptions for participating ISS crewmembers.  Detailed biomechanical analyses of locomotion will be used to determine if biomechanics differ between normal and microgravity environments and to determine how combinations of external loads and exercise speed influence joint loading during in-flight treadmill exercise.  Such biomechanical analyses will aid in understanding potential differences in gait motion and allow for model-based determination of joint &amp; muscle forces during exercise. The data will be used to characterize differences in specific bone and muscle loading during locomotion in the two gravitational conditions.  By understanding these mechanisms, appropriate exercise prescriptions can be developed that address deficiencies.]
Plaque Hanging:   At 3:30pm EDT, the traditional official plaque hanging will take place in ISS Mission Control/Houston for the Inc-31 Plaque with crew participation.
 
Conjunction Alert:   Tracking is underway on Object 34840 (CZ-2C Rocket Body) with TCA (Time of Closest Approach) on Sunday, 8/26, at 4:38pm EDT.  With the object being well-tracked, current concern level is low.
 
Tasks listed for Revin, Malenchenko &amp; Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were �C
<?if !supportLists?>・        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop,
<?if !supportLists?>・        <?endif?>A detailed &amp; general view photo session of the flooding which occurred overnight on 8/21-22 at the Black Sea;   [the disaster zone includes the towns Novomikhalovsky, Lermontovo and Tenginka, the Shapsukho &amp; Nechepsukho river valleys and the adjacent mountain region.  Novomikhalovsky is located on the Tuapse-Novorossiisk Highway, 33 km from Tuapse and 14 km from Dzubgi. The town is situated in the Nechepsukho river valley and its tributary Psebe, where Nechepsukho is falling into Mikhalovsky Bay in the Black Sea. As a result of torrential rain the Nechepsukho river flooded.  600 houses, a hospital and a school were in the disaster zone. Four people died, 1500 were affected, including 275 children.  Municipal infrastructures need to be restored. Lermontovo is located on the shores of Tenginsky Bay of the Black Sea, at the inflow of Shapsukho river. The valley of that river is approx. 40 km in length, 5 km to the east of Dzubgi on the Tuapse-Novorosskiisk highway and 55 km from Tuapse. The Tenginka village is located 4 km upriver], and
<?if !supportLists?>・        <?endif?>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 

