
42 Soyuz (42S) Relocation: 42S will be relocated from Mini Research Module (MRM) 2 Zenith to Service Module Aft tomorrow with the undock command scheduled for 2:11 am CDT. To support the relocation timeline the 42S crew sleep shifted 5.5 hours earlier today (11:00 am CDT, 16:00 GMT).  The relocation is in preparation for 44S scheduled docking to MRM 2 Zenith on September 4.  42S return to Earth is currently planned for September 11.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: 

Lindgren and Yui continued with their Flight Day 30 (FD30) Ocular Health activities performing their Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), each acting as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO) for the other. They also performed fundoscopy, again with Yui acting as CMO for Lindgren, and Lindgren as CMO for Yui.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Kelly completed his FD150 Sprint ultrasound.  He activated the Ultrasound machine and donned the calf and thigh reference guides.  He then performed thigh and calf scans with guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of investigator’s long term goal of protecting human fitness for longer space exploration missions.
Kelly and Kornienko performed their Reaction Self-Tests today.  This week-long session is in advance of the sleep shift required for the 42 Soyuz relocation tonight.  Reaction Self-Test aids crewmembers to objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
Kelly and Kornienko are performing a week of sleep logging.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the International Space Station (ISS).

 
NanoRacks Multi-Gas Monitor (MGM): Lindgren stowed the MGM deployed in the Node 1 on NanoRacks Platform 2 to recharge the battery and transfer data.  The Multi-Gas Monitor is the first laser sensor to continuously measure four gases that are key for crewmembers’ health aboard the ISS. The multiple low-power, tunable lasers train an infrared laser beam on a cabin air sample, and sensors are tuned to specific wavelengths of light to detect oxygen, carbon dioxide, ammonia, and humidity. The instrument fits in a device the size of a shoebox and detects the presence of gases in less than one second.
 
HTV Cargo Transfer Status:  Kelly, Lindgren and Yui completed 5.5 hours of HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today.  A total of 32 hours remain to complete HTV-5 cargo operations
 

