
Payloads:
AstroPi: The crew reviewed the big picture words for the AstroPi photography checkout activity. In this checkout, the ground teams will assess the night-time photography capabilities of the AstroPi system. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an infrared (IR) camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera. 
Standard Measures: Pre-sleep questionnaires were filled out in support of the Standard Measures investigation. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between the US and IP Russia, the crew began transferring water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, the MSS was powered up, and the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) was maneuvered to survey the International Docking Adapter 2 (IDA2) Striker Plate with the camera on the Latching End Effector (LEE). After the survey was complete, the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite #6 to Worksite #3 in preparation for today’s MSS operations.

