
Lung Tissue:  The crew took samples and fixed media in Tissue Bags. They then inserted the bags in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Lung Tissue investigation uses the microgravity environment of space to test strategies for growing new lung tissue. Using the latest bioengineering techniques, the Lung Tissue experiment cultures different types of lung cells in controlled conditions onboard the ISS. The cells are grown in a specialized framework that supplies them with critical growth factors so that scientists can observe how gravity affects growth and specialization as cells become new lung tissue.
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems (STaARS) Intraterrestrial Fungus (iFUNGUS): The crew removed 2 sample bags from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) and inserted them in the STaARS facility for incubation times of 8 and 11 hours, respectively.  The bags were later removed and stored in a MELFI. The crew repeated the above steps for 2 more sample bags but for incubation times of 18 and 23 hours.  STaARS-iFUNGUS cultures a rare type of fungus in the microgravity environment of space to support the search for new antibiotics. The fungus, Penicillium chrysogenum, comes from deep in the Earth’s subsurface and shows potential as a source for new antibacterial compounds. For the iFUNGUS experiment frozen fungal spores are transported to the ISS, fungus is grown in different nutrient mixtures over different intervals, and frozen samples are returned to Earth where scientists examine how they grew and what chemicals they produced. Discoveries generated by this research can foster further research and production efforts that utilize low gravity conditions to create novel compounds or other products.
MagVector:  The crew performed closeout and cleanup activities for the 7-day MagVector Run #12.  The European Space Agency (ESA) MagVector investigation studies how the Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research may help improve future ISS experiments and offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general. 
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  The crew replaced old food bars and cleaned the Animal Habitats to support the ongoing RR-9 investigation which studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays on the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joints, eyes and the immune system. 
SUPVIS-Justin:  The crew set up hardware for ESA’s SUPVIS-Justin investigation operations and completed a protocol operation.  SUPVIS-Justin, part of the Meteron program, aims to demonstrate that an astronaut on an orbiting space station can command a robot via a tablet PC to perform complex tasks on a planetary surface. The SUPVIS Justin experiment includes an extended supervised autonomy concept: the crew gives high level commands to the robot, which then uses its local intelligence and decision-making capability to execute a task independently, according to pre-programmed algorithms. In this sense, the responsibility of decision-making is shared between the crew and the robot. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  The crew collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a MELFI.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes on ISS over a 1-year period and how they change over time. 
Lighting Effects: A crewmember provided a sleep log entry for the Lighting Effects investigation. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. Fluorescent bulbs are being replaced with solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that have adjustable intensity and color. Investigators will determine if the new lights improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Dose Tracker:  A crewmember made a weekly medication tracking entry in the Dose Tracker application that runs on an iPad. Dose Tracker documents the medication usage of crewmembers before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The investigation is expected to provide anecdotal evidence of medication effectiveness during flight and any unusual side effects experienced. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics is occurring during missions.
On-Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent Drill: In preparation for 50S undock, the 50S crew participated in a nominal descent drill.  In addition to the drill, they consulted with ground teams regarding returning equipment and Soyuz stowage. Undock and landing are scheduled for Saturday, September 2.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew R&Rd the WHC urine receptacle and insert filter. 
Starboard Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: In preparation for 50S departure from the ISS next week, the crew cleaned the starboard CQ intake and exhaust ducts as well as fans and airflow sensors. 

