
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Operations:   Last night, ground controllers were unsuccessful in their attempt to deploy four Cosmogia Dove CubeSats via the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) from deployers #4 and #5.  Preliminary plans are to re-attempt those deploys on Monday.  This morning the team successfully deployed two CubeSats from deployer #6.  Tonight they are scheduled to deploy four additional CubeSats from deployers #7 and #8. 
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides which isolated the rack and allowed ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. Toluene and heptane were used for these test points. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. Results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding of how fires behave in space and provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Electromagnetic Levitation (EML) Installation: FE-6 Gerst continued EML installation inside the European Drawer Rack (EDR). He assembled a water pump and installed it inside the EML Power and H2O Supply module. He also installed a hard disc, but when installing the axial camera inside Experiment Module Gerst encountered a stuck fastener. Ground teams are assessing future troubleshooting. EML aims to increase the performance of metallic/alloy structures through an understanding of how solidification can be controlled and develop a data base of properties to allow better process modeling. The experiment investigates solidification and microstructural evolution and evaluates thermo-physical properties of highly reactive molten metals.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Version 5 Transition:  The SSC Version 5 transition is proceeding well.  The LS1 server load is complete and the ground team has loaded version 5 on several SSCs.  The remaining SSCs are in work. 
Cargo Operations:  The crew continued pre-packing of US cargo for the 38 Soyuz (38S) return in September. They also continued transferring cargo from Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 to the ISS.

