
BioServe Protein Crystallography (BPC)-1:  The crew performed BioServe Protein Crystallography Microscope operations today.  They removed the BioServe Protein Crystallography samples from the Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL), made observations, and photographed the sample wells using the microscope, and returned the samples to the SABL.  BPC-1 seeks to demonstrate the feasibility of conducting protein crystal growth in real time onboard the ISS.  Crewmembers add solutions to the hardware, observe the crystals that form and adjust for follow-on experiments. This approach gives scientists the ability to optimize crystal growth in microgravity instead of waiting for samples to return and then launching them again. 
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): The crew swabbed surfaces on the PMM blackout curtain and areas around the crew quarters and stowed the samples in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.    
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): The crew checked the camera alignment and focus by viewing the latest BCAT images on a laptop and then re-set the intervalometer as needed.  The BCAT-CS investigation studies the forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles.  Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: This evening, ground robotic specialists will use Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to engage gimbal locks on the Multiple User System for Earth Sensing (MUSES) platform. The DLR Earth Sensing Imaging Spectrometer (DESIS) payload, which was installed in the JEM Airlock yesterday, will be transferred to the MUSES platform next week. After the MUSES prep tonight SPDM will then be used to move a spare Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) from CTC-2, which is next to MUSES on ELC-4, to a spare RPCM slot on S0 (pre-staging spare to simplify future RPCM R&R if needed).  MUSES is a FRAM-based platform which can host up to four Earth-sensing payloads.  MUSES launched on SpX-11 & installed on ELC-4 without any Hosted Payloads. Hosted Payloads flown internally & transferred to/from MUSES by SPDM via JEM Airlock.
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA) Backup Drive System (BDS) Install and Checkout: The crew installed the new SFA BDS and re-configured JEMRMS cabling to perform a checkout of the unit. This new BDS provides backup commanding capability to the SFA and, coupled with the already installed JEMRMS BDS, allows operators to safely operate the entire JEMRMS system if the primary command console fails. Following the checkout, the crew reconfigured the JEMRMS system for nominal operations. 
Emergency Mask Review On Board Training (OBT): The entire 55S crew reviewed and practiced the Emergency Mask donning and purging technique using training masks. The crew regularly completes OBT sessions to refresh their familiarity with the various emergency procedures that can result from off-nominal events onboard ISS.  
WHC Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew replaced the WHC piping between the Pump Separator and the Dose Pump. Scheduled every 180 days, this routine preventive maintenance activity ensures proper operation of WHC and minimizes the probability of a leak within the system.

