
CREAM (Cosmic Ray Energetics and Mass):  Last night the CREAM external payload was removed from the SpX-12 trunk by the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and handed off to the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which then installed it on Exposed Facility Unit-2 (EFU-2) on the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF).  Ground controllers then commanded activation of the CREAM payload.  CREAM’s instruments measure the charges of cosmic rays over a broad energy range for a planned three years of operation on the ISS.  The origins of cosmic rays and the mechanisms that accelerate them to high speeds are among the oldest questions in modern astrophysics.  Results from CREAM are expected to bring the science community closer to answering those questions and build a stronger understanding of the fundamental structure of the universe.
Cardio Ox Ultrasound:  A 50S crewmember completed their Return minus 15 Day (R-15) ultrasound, blood pressure and Electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements for the Cardio Ox investigation.  Another crewmember provided scanning assistance after the subject crewmember donned the ECG electrodes and marked the carotid and brachial arteries for scanning.  By collecting ultrasound and ECG data, along with blood and urine samples, scientists are trying to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. 
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP):  The crew removed Cell Culturing (CellCult) cassettes from ADSEP, inserted cells into each cassette and reinserted them into ADSEP.  ADSEP is a thermally controlled facility that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated. Its companion hardware consists of a collection of several experiment cassettes that accommodate experiments in cell technology, model organisms, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.  For CellCult investigations, each cassette contains a rotating filtered bioreactor, a reservoir for fresh media, two peristaltic pumps, a waste reservoir, and up to 6 sample-collection or reagent containers connected by a manifold to the reactor. Cultures can be operated in continuous perfusion, batch fed, static, or sampling mode.  The removal of samples and the addition of additives to the reactor volume can be programmed or teleoperated. 
Multi-Omics-Mouse: The crew performed routine maintenance for the Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Units, exchanging waste collection equipment and odor filters.  Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In the Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, to determine if they improve the gut environment and immune function.  After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis.
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM):  The crew ingressed BEAM and collecteded air and surface microbial samples.  BEAM is an experimental expandable module attached to the ISS.  Expandable modules weigh less and take up less room on a rocket than a traditional module, while providing additional space on-orbit for living and working. Crews traveling to the moon, Mars, asteroids, or other destinations may be able to use them as habitable structures.
Treadmill 2 (T2): This afternoon the crew reported a clicking noise emanating from T2 that had not been heard previously.  The crew took video and audio which were downlinked for ground team evaluation. T2 is currently no-go for exercise.

