
Treadmill 2 (T2) Maintenance: The crew performed both the 6-month and yearly T2 preventative inspections and maintenance actions. During these tasks, the crew inspected the treadbelt slats and screws, cleaned the treadmill drive shaft, greased forward and rear axles, vacuumed inside the rack and around the treadmill, and inspected the bungee shackle key mount witness marks. An unmanned activation and checkout was completed and ground specialists are reviewing the data to verify T2 remains GO for exercise.
Plant Habitat: Today the crew reinstalled the Plant Habitat facility in ER5. Plant Habitat was de-installed from the Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station Rack (ER) 5 yesterday to support the replacement of an ER5 subsystem valve that had been identified as the source of a Moderate Temperature Loopleak in the Japanese Experiment Module. Plant Habitat is a fully automated facility that will be used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXPRESS Rack and two International Subrack Interface Standard (ISIS) drawers, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) SmoothNav: A crewmember set up and performed a SPHERES SmoothNav test run today. SmoothNav uses an estimation algorithm that obtains the most probable estimate of the relative positions and velocities between multiple spacecraft using available sensor information. The algorithm is portable between different satellites with different onboard sensors, adapts to one or more satellites becoming inoperable, and is tolerant to delayed measurements or measurements received at different frequencies. 
Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) 13:  The crew set up the PCG 13 investigation hardware and filled PCG card wells today. The CASIS PCG 13 investigation seeks to enhance the way crystals are grown in a microgravity environment.  It allows crewmembers to observe imperfections within a crystal and make real-time adjustments for follow-up experiments with samples already on the ISS. The changes have the potential to dramatically reduce the time it takes to conduct an experiment onboard the ISS.  
SpaceTex-2 and Metabolic Space:  A crewmember donned Thermolab equipment, a heart rate monitor, and a SpaceTex shirt for ESA’s SpaceTex-2 investigation. He also donned Metabolic Space equipment and completed an exercise session using the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  SpaceTex fabrics provide a higher rate of sweat evaporation and a corresponding higher evaporative heat loss compared to conventional cotton fabrics used by astronauts on the ISS.  Metabolic Space provides a technology demonstration for a measurement system worn by astronauts that supports cardio-pulmonary diagnosis during physical activities of astronauts living onboard the ISS, while maintaining unrestricted mobility.
Meteor: The crew re-imaged the Meteor system and installed a software image load today. The crew also checked camera settings and positioned the camera back at the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) window. The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. The study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.  
Intra-Module Ventilation (IMV) Supply Fan Assembly (ISFA) Remove and Replace (R&R): Late last year, the Columbus IFSA began showing anomalous input current spikes indicating a potential fan bearing failure or mechanical fan degradation. To safeguard the IMV system, the crew successfully R&Rd the IFSA this morning.  Ground controllers re-powered the Columbus systems and payloads deactivated for the R&R.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: This afternoon & evening, robotics controllers will use the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to stow the Robotics Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) in the Tool Holster Assembly (THA). Once complete, they will translate the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite (WS) 3 to WS 6 in preparation for Monday night’s extraction of the DLR Earth Sensing Imaging Spectrometer (DESIS) payload from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock.

