
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #35:   Today’s EVA was performed by Flight Engineer (FE)-4 Yurchikhin and FE-2 Misurkin with a duration of  5 hours 59 min.  The crew successfully completed the following tasks:

Retrieved External Onboard Laser Communications Terminal (BTLS) from SM plane IV Universal Work Platform [УРM-Д]
Installed protective covers on BTLS
Installation of EVA Work Station (VRM) with preinstalled Biaxial Pointing Platform (DPN) on SM plane IV [УРM-Д]
Inspect all 6 WAL PCE antennas.
Perform experiment “Test” on MRM2 EV Hatch 2
Install two (2) gap spanners on SM plane II [УРM-Д]

Due to issues with the clocking of the VRM and DPN Platform which added additional time to the installation, they were unable to install a foot restraint (YAKOR) on the VRM.  Additionally, the crew unfurled a Russian flag as part of the Russian Flag Day Holiday celebration.  During the EVA FE-3 Cassidy and CDR Vinogradov were isolated in the MRM-2/34S while FE-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg had access to all modules forward of the SM.
ISS Testbed for Analog Research (ISTAR) Treadmill 2 Quarterly Inspection:  FE-6 performed the Treadmill2 quarterly inspection using the ISTAR procedure.  The ISTAR investigation is part of an Exploration Detailed Test Objective (xDTO). This ISTAR xDTO examines how mission operations can be optimized in the presence of speed-of-light communication delays of up to tens of minutes, similar to what would be experienced on exploration missions to Mars, near-Earth asteroids, or other targets in deep space. The goal of the ISTAR Treadmill 2 – Quarterly inspection procedure is to allow FE-6 Nyberg to autonomously execute the activity by giving her all the extra information needed to complete it and solve problems that may arise without having to call ground specialist.
InSPACE3 Experiment Run:  FE-6 Nyberg performed three InSPACE runs today, 107, 108 and 109. InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state by the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and can improve the design of structures.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Rack 2 Resupply:  FE-5 Parmitano removed expired limited life items and transferred contents from HRF Consumables Kit to HRF Supply Kit Purple and HRF Supply Kit Green. Parmitano then removed Mesh Bags from HRF Supply Kit Green and HRF Consumable Kits and collocated them near the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) rack.

