
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Blower Circuit Breaker Trip: This morning the circuit breaker to the WHC blower tripped. After the crew ran the nominal malfunction procedure, the breaker again tripped prompting ground specialists to declare the hardware failed. The crew successfully removed and replaced the failed blower and functional tests were successful; WHC is now a GO for use.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Operations for the German Space Agency (DLR) Earth Sensing Imaging Spectrometer (DESIS):  Today the crew removed the Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer 9 (J-SSOD#9) and the Multipurpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) from the JEM Airlock Slide Table and then installed Payload Mounting Assembly (PMA) hardware and the DESIS on the table.  The Slide Table was then retracted into the Airlock in preparation for installation of the DESIS on the Multiple User System for Earth Sensing (MUSES) external facility later this week. The DESIS investigation is expected to verify and enhance commercial space-based hyperspectral (from the visual to near infrared spectrum) imaging capabilities for Earth remote sensing.  Requested images are transferred to a hosted cloud that provides user access.  DESIS has a number of commercial and humanitarian applications. 
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-2 (ACE-T-2):  The crew configured the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) and installed an ACE-T-2 sample. The ACE-T-2 experiment looks at the assembly of complex structures from micron-scale colloidal particles interacting via tunable attractive interactions. The samples contain suspensions of colloidal particles that upon nearing the critical solvent temperature give rise to critical interactions between the particles. Regulating the temperature enables control of the particle interactions, leading to the growth of complex structures. 
ESA’s SpacTex-2 and Metabolic Space:  A crewmember donned Thermolab equipment, a heart rate monitor, and a SpaceTex shirt as part of the SpaceTex-2 investigation.  He also donned Metabolic Space equipment and completed an exercise session using the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS). SpaceTex fabrics provide a higher rate of sweat evaporation and a corresponding higher evaporative heat loss compared to conventional cotton fabrics used by astronauts on the ISS.  Metabolic Space provides a technology demonstration for a measurement system worn by astronauts that supports cardio-pulmonary diagnosis during physical activities of astronauts living onboard the ISS, while maintaining unrestricted mobility. 
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): The crew swabbed surfaces on the PMM blackout curtain and areas around the crew quarters, and stowed the samples in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for the identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS and how humans, plants, and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.    
Granular Damping: In support of ESA’s Flying Classroom 2 Education Payloads Operations (EPO), a crewmember recorded a video demonstrating the damping mechanism of granular materials. For this demonstration, three-dimensional printed granular shells were produced on-orbit in the Manufacturing Device 3D Printer. Small particles (granules) are packed inside a larger shell (damper) that is either spherical or cylindrical. The experiment demonstrates how the different amount of filling material affects the amount of dissipation upon collision, using shells of spherical and cylindrical forms filled with different amounts of granules.
Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Data Collection: Today the crew attempted to use the TAK to record output torque values from the on-orbit PGTs. During the activity, however, the crew was unable to properly drive the TAK with a PGT; additional troubleshooting this afternoon was unsuccessful and ground experts continue to evaluate today’s anomaly. The PGT is a programmable, computer-controlled hand-drill like device designed for use by EVA crewmembers. This yearly test is part of normal PGT maintenance and ensures the outputted torques match the settings commanded by the astronaut.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Status: Following Friday morning’s false fire indication in the T2 rack, the crew performed an unmanned activation and checkout.  T2 engineers have reviewed the data captured during the checkout and T2 was declared ‘GO for use’ Friday night.
V-Guide Bag Assembly: Today the crew assembled and configured the V-Guide Bag and Radiator V-Guides expected to be taken outside ISS during the next EVA and stowed for future use. The V-Guides would be installed by EVA crewmembers in a contingency to allow the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to remove and install a degraded Radiator Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) on the S1 or P1 truss.
Live Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event: Today Gerst participated in a PAO event with Peter Altmaier, German Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Energy and Space. They discussed how the relevance of human research in microgravity and the need for international cooperation in space could be used to generation enthusiasm for space exploration in the next generation.

