ISS On-Orbit Status 08/22/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday --- Crew rest day.
 
  Upon wakeup, FE-2 Timothy Kopra continued his current experiment activity of SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of an extended session.     [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  The six-member crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, CDR Padalka &amp; FE-3 Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9), plus dust filter replacement in the FGB.
 
  At ~9:05am EDT, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  For today’s VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity, Mike Barratt conducted another LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) Phase 1 sampling session using only the LAL (Limulus amebocyte lysate) cartridges, setting up the equipment, preparing media and taking samples by swabbing.    [LOCAD uses small, thumb-sized “microfluidic” cartridges that are read by the experiment reader.  The handheld device tests a new analysis technology by sampling for the presence of gram negative bacteria in the sample in about 15 minutes.  Lab-on-a-Chip technology has an ever-expanding range of applications in the biotech industry.  Chips are available (or in development) which can also detect yeast, mold, and gram positive bacteria, identify environmental contaminants, and perform quick health diagnostics in medical clinics.  The technology has been used to swab the MERs (Mars Exploration Rovers) for planetary protection.  With expanded testing on ISS, this compact technology has broad potential applications in space exploration--from monitoring environmental conditions to monitoring crew health.  After today, there are nine sessions remaining to complete the planned science requirements.]
  
  Afterwards, Mike &amp; FE-4 Bob Thirsk set up the CCISS (Cardiovascular &amp; Cerebrovascular Control on Return from the ISS) hardware, with HM2 (Holter Monitor 2), CBPD (Continuous Blood Pressure Device), and Actiwatch to produce an educational 3-minute high-def video of a (simulated) CCISS session as a VolSci activity, without activating the hardware or initializing the Actiwatch. 
 
  Working on the WRS2 (Water Recovery System), FE-5 Frank De Winne configured and filled the RFTA QD (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly Quick Disconnect) hose for filter exchange by the backflow method. 
 
  Barratt completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR). 
 
  Afterwards, Mike transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
  At ~7:20am, the CDR had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and u-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
  At ~8:48am, Bob Thirsk powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and conducted, at 8:53am, a ham radio exchange with Swiss Girl and Boy Scouts of Maur at “Pfadimuur”, Forch, Switzerland.    [The International Year of Astronomy inspired a few scout guides from Maur near Zürich, Switzerland to create a special scout event, the Astrocamp 2009, where participants from 5 to 20 years shall learn about the following three topics which are scout qualifications: astronomy and space technology, communication technologies, journalism and public relation.  Therefore they planned three Saturdays, where about 100 active Pfadi Muur scouts have the possibility to visit one of the above named workshops. The event began with the ARISS (Amateur Radio on ISS) contact, where 20 children got the opportunity to talk to an astronaut and at the end of the course they will present the workshop results such as a planet route, a telescope made out of a drain (astronomy) or a broadcasting local UKW radio station (journalism) as well as a self-constructed aircraft radio receiver in a second event open for public on September 19.  The Swiss astronomy expert Bruno Stanek will hold a speech and together with people of a local observatory the scouts will have a look into the sky. The technical team that will provide the equipment for the ARISS contact is led by Mario Malacarne who has established two ARISS contacts so far.]
 
  At ~12:55pm, Roman Romanenko &amp; Gennady Padalka downlinked PAO TV messages and greetings to TsUP-Moscow for three events: (1) to the birthday of Sergey Aleksandrovich Derepko, the head of the Yaroslavskiy Military Academy of Finance and Economics, who will turn 55 years old on 8/25;  (2) to the residents &amp; guests at the 80<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of the Shcholkovskiy municipal region of Moscow Oblast where Russian and foreign delegations from Shcholkovo's sister cities in Germany, Finland, Ukraine, Belarus, and China will participate in the ceremonies at the palace of culture in the city of Shcholkovo; and (3) to the Model Rocket Festival "Rocketafest 2009" which will take place on 8/29 in Moscow on Cosmonaut Avenue in front of the Memorial Museum of Astronautics.  The festival takes place through the support of the Moscow Public Affairs Committee. 
 
 
