
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)5 Capture/Berthing: Yui and Lindgren captured HTV5 using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at 5:29 am CDT this morning.  Next the Robotics Ground Controllers used the SSRMS to maneuver the HTV5 into position to support the inspection of the HTV5 Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) and then maneuvered the HTV5 to and install it on the Node-2 Nadir Active CBM at approximately 8:44 am CST. Kelly and Lindgren then performed the CBM capture/Abolt, vestibule pressurization and outfitting parts 1 and 2. The Robotic Ground Controllers have ungrappled the HTV5 and maneuvered the SSRMS to grapple the HTV5 External Platform (EP).  Robotic Ground Controllers have reconfigured the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) from the Hot Backup Configuration to a nominal operations configuration and powered down the MSS.  Overnight Robotics Ground Controllers will extract the EP from the HTV and handoff to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (RMS).  Tomorrow morning the crew will perform Vestibule Outfitting part 3, CPA removal and ingress.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: 

Kelly and Kornienko performed their morning and pre-sleep Reaction Self Tests.  This week-long session is in advance of the sleep shift required for the 42 Soyuz relocation later this week.  Reaction Self-Test helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity, and residual sedation from sleep medications).
Kelly and Kornienko are performing a week of sleep logging.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness. It examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.

 
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) LAD62B-A RPC 12 (Lab CDRA ASV) Trip: Over the weekend the RPCM LAD62B-A that provides power to the Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valves (ASV) tripped multiple times. This RPCM was replaced on 24-July-2015. This is the first time the RPC 12 has tripped since the RPCM was replaced. RPC 12 has been tripping intermittently since April 1, 2014 while the Lab CDRA is ‘On’ or in ‘Standby’. The replacement of the RPCM was to remove a leg of the fault tree. RPC 12 has been closed and Lab CDRA is currently in standby. It is available for use as needed.
 

