
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Troubleshooting: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy performed a checkout of the Water Separator Screen on EMU serial number 3011. The checkout was terminated early once expected water was observed leaking from behind the helmet pad.  During US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 23, an excessive amount of water accumulated in the back of the helmet of EMU 3011, resulting in EVA termination.  EMU Engineers have determine that EMU 3011’s water separator loop is functioning outside of specification, allowing excessive amount of water to enter the ventilation loop.  Ground specialists are Removal and repair of the Water Condensate Relief Valve and Gas Trap are scheduled to occur on Saturday, 31 August.
Resonant Inductive Near-field Generation System (RINGS): FE-6 Nyberg integrated the RINGS hardware with Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES). In addition, she set up cameras, loaded the RINGS operating software to the satellite and performed tests.  All session objectives were accomplished and RINGS is now ready for science operations.  The RINGS experiment will develop hardware and software to enable relative station keeping, maneuvering, and attitude control between two SPHERES satellites using steerable electromagnetic dipoles at a distance on the order of decimeters to meters.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment:  FE-5 Parmitano performed three InSPACE-3 runs today.  Parmitano varied the magnetic pulse frequency while keeping the field strength constant.  InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state by the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and can improve the design of structures.  A total of 18 out of 42 runs have been completed for InSPACE3 so far.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Status/Ops: Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and translated the Mobile Transporter from Worksite (WS) 2 to WS7.  Later today they will use the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the SSRMS to pick up Space Test Program – Houston (STP-H) 4 from the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 4 Exposed Pallet (EP) and install it on Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (EXPRESS) Logistics Carrier (ELC) 1 Site 3.  MSS performance, so far today, has been nominal.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-4 Cargo Operations: The crew completed HTV-4 cargo operations today, loading  the final trash items into the vehicle.  HTV4 unberths from ISS on Wednesday, September 4, 2013.  Prior to unberthing the crew will load and activate a reentry data recorder (I-BALL) which will aquire continuous position, acceleration, temperature and imagery during the reentry phase of the HTV.

