
Payloads
Food Acceptability:  Using the data collection tool on an available SSC, the crew completed their Food Acceptability surveys.  This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spacefligght food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
HRF-Veggie Profile of Mood States (POMS):  Using the Data Collection Tool (DCT) on an available SSC, the crew completed a POMS questionnaire.  The research of HRF Veg focuses on the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space for various plants grown by other investigations.  Plants in space have potential countermeasure benefits. Fresh vegetables offer flavor, sensory, and texture variety to the pre-packaged ISS diet. Taking care of the plants provides sensory stimulation and helps mark the passage of time in the confined and isolated environment of ISS.
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MEFI): The crew installed a spare Electronic Unit (EU) into the spare location in the MELFI-1 Rack.  This EU was previously returned to the ground for repairs and is a component of the MELFI.  The Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) is a cold storage unit capable of maintaining experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures throughout a mission.  The MELFI units use nitrogen as a working fluid and have standard set points of -95°C, -35°C and +2°C.
Payload hardware consolidate: The crew staged hardware to prepare for SpX-23 return, and trashed obsolete hardware to free up space for future ascent items.  This hardware included (Combustion Integrated Rack) CIR manifold bottles, Human Research testing/sampling items, Cold Atom Lab hardware, and Nanoracks CubeSat Deployer multi-layered insulation (MLI).
Systems
Cupola Window Scratch Pane Replace: The crew removed the original Scratch Pane installed on Cupola Windows #1 and replaced it with a new Acrylic Scratch Pane.  The crew attempted to replace the scratch pane on Cupola Window #7; however, the experienced some interference with the new pane.  The crew has taken images of the interference and downlinked them for the ground team to evaluate.  The original scratch pane has been reinstalled on Cupola Window #7.
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Configuration: The crew restowed EVA hardware that was intended to be used during the IROSA Prep 4A EVA, which has been delayed. The crew also gathered EVA hardware to be used during upcoming RS EVAs 49 and 50. The crew also initiated Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) and Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) battery recharging.
Emergency Air Supply (EAS) Air Tank Assembly: The crew started to assemble the EAS in preparation for installation into Crew-3. During this activity the crew installed the Tank into the Mount, without the Regulator (which is currently manifested on Crew-3), and covers were installed to protect the valve stem while in stowage. 
Airlock Stowage Platform (ASP) Unstow: The crew unstowed all stowage from the Airlock Beck Bins, Closeouts, and Basement in preparation for removing the A/L1D1 Stowage Platform and installing the new Deck Stowage Platform.

