
Payloads
Astrobee: In preparation for the AstroPorter experiment later this week, the crew installed the perching arm assemblies to the Astrobee free fliers.  AstroPorter is a suite of software that enables collaborative behavior between multiple robots in space, including algorithms for handling changes in mass properties of free-flying systems as they collaborate in the transport of cargo.  The primary objective is to enable Astrobee to serve as a cargo tug for large objects as part of a roadmap for in-space servicing, and to allow use of the Astrobee facility to validate control strategies for future efforts.
Butterfly IQ Ultrasound: The crew performed a Butterfly IQ ultrasound solo scanning session.  The goal was a successful demonstration and checkout of the hardware.  Butterfly IQ Ultrasound demonstrates the effectiveness of a portable ultrasound device used in conjunction with a mobile computing device in the space environment. The investigation examines ease of probe handling, quality of ultrasound images, and effectiveness of just-in-time instructions for autonomous use by the crew. Such commercial off-the-shelf technology could provide important medical capabilities for future exploration missions beyond low-Earth orbit.
Eklosion: The crew participated in an Eklosion experiment session by observing the flower, taking photos, and reading some of the messages included with the experiment.  The Eklosion investigation utilizes a vase, inspired by the VEGGIE plant growth facility, specially designed for use in the microgravity environment aboard the ISS.  Eklosion contains within its hull small messages and smells from Earth for the psychological benefit of the crew member who conducts the investigation.  In the experiment, the crew grows a Marigold flower (Tagetes patula). 
Lumina: The crew used a Bluetooth connection to transfer data from the Lumina radiation monitoring device via the EveryWear Application.  Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation.  The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Payload Network Attached Storage (PL NAS):  Due to issues recognizing all drives within the NAS, the crew reseated Hard Drive-2.  The Payload NAS is a file server with 5 hard drive bays that provides a total of 20 terabytes of raw disk space when used with 4 terabyte hard drives.  Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS.
Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II):  The crew relocated the SAMS sensor from the seat track on EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) rack 6 to the seat track on the Materials Science Research Rack (MSRR).  The sensor will be used to capture acceleration data in support of science activities.  SAMS-II is an ongoing study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the ISS resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings and maneuvering. Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments and structural life of ISS. Investigators and Structural Analysts seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS using SAMS-II data and assessing station loads and dynamics.
Veggie:  The crew replaced old components from the Veggie facility 02J with new components.  The Vegetable Production System (Veggie) is a deployable plant growth unit capable of producing salad-type crops to provide the crew with a palatable, nutritious, and safe source of fresh food and a tool to support relaxation and recreation. The Veggie provides lighting and nutrient delivery and utilizes the cabin environment for temperature control and as a source of carbon dioxide to promote growth. Veggie is also used for fundamental space biology experiments such as the series Advanced Plant Experiments (APEX) and educational space biology activities.
Systems
Deck Airlock Stowage Platform (ASP) Replacement: The crew removed the Airlock closeout panels and configured a portable fan assembly in the airlock in preparation for tomorrow’s deck ASP replacement.  The old Airlock deck stowage bins will be replaced with the upgraded Deck ASP to increase stowage capability in this location.
Educational PAO Event: This morning the crew participated in a STEMonstrations, a series of educational videos conducted aboard the space station. The material will be used for grades 5-12 educational products, NASA TV, and social media applications.The topic for today’s session was the Destiny Module and how it was engineered for life in microgravity.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Glove Imagery: The crew performed a detailed survey of three sets of EMU gloves.  During this survey the crew took high quality photos of the EMU gloves and downlinked them to the ground specialist to evaluate to confirm they are cleared for future ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) use.
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping R&R: As part of routine maintenance, today the crew replaced the piping between the pump separator and the dose pump.
Robotic Operations: Ground teams have completed the ISS Experience ZCAM filming planned to be completed prior to the next USOS EVA.  Ground Robotic specialist will start preparing to return the ISS Experience Z-CAM back into the JEM airlock. Today’s operations, which are planned overnight, include stowing Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM), walking the SSRMS off to the MBS and then unstowing SPDM.

