
Solar Eclipse Viewing: The crew removed scratch panes from Cupola windows #4 and #6 and cleaned the window #3 scratch pane. The crew then took both HD video and still images of the moon’s umbra on Earth from the Cupola. They also obtained images of both the sun and the moon. In addition, the P1 Lower Outboard External High Definition Camera (EHDC) was used to capture HD video of the moon’s umbra on Earth.
Lung Tissue:  On Saturday the crew set up hardware in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) for Lung Tissue operations.  They also took samples and inserted them in to a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and fixed media in Tissue Bags. The Lung Tissue investigation uses the microgravity environment of space to test strategies for growing new lung tissue. Using the latest bioengineering techniques, the Lung Tissue experiment cultures different types of lung cells in controlled conditions onboard the ISS. The cells are grown in a specialized framework that supplies them with critical growth factors so that scientists can observe how gravity affects growth and specialization as cells become new lung tissue.
Kubik:  On Saturday and Sunday the crew deinstalled Agenzia Spaziale Italiana (ASI) Biomission experiment containers from the Kubik 5 facility in the Columbus module, completing Runs 2 and 3.  Later today they will deinstall another experiment container, completing Run 4.  Each of the containers is inserted into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) in order to preserve the scientific samples.  Kubik 5 is supporting Biomission investigations by providing a small controlled-temperature incubator / cooler for the study of biological samples in a microgravity environment.  Kubik is equipped with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic experiments using seeds, cells, and small animals.
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP):  On Saturday the crew removed Cell Culturing (CellCult) cassettes from ADSEP, inserted cells into each cassette and then reinserted them into ADSEP.  ADSEP is a thermally controlled facility that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated. Its companion hardware consists of a collection of several experiment cassettes, each doubly or triply contained, that accommodate experiments in cell technology, model organisms, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.  For CellCult investigations, each cassette contains a single 50 milliliter rotating filtered bioreactor, a reservoir for fresh media, two programmable peristaltic pumps, a waste reservoir, and up to six sample-collection or reagent containers connected by manifold to the reactor. Cultures can be operated in continuous perfusion, batch fed, static, or sampling mode. Both the removal of samples and the addition of additives to the reactor volume can be programmed or teleoperated.  Aeration and humidity control are available 
NanoRacks Module 9: On Saturday the crew activated mixture tubes for the NanoRacks Module 9 second operations session in support of the NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science-Casper (NanoRacks-NCESSE-Casper) investigation.  NCESSE supports various schools and student-designed experiments that address challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for U.S. science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) that strives to educate and inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program.   
Lighting Effects: On Sunday a crewmember provided a sleep log entry for the Lighting Effects investigation. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. Fluorescent bulbs are being replaced with solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that have adjustable intensity and color. Investigators will determine if the new lights improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Cardio Ox:  A 50S crewmember collected blood and urine samples today to satisfy their Return minus 15 Day (R-15) Cardio Ox requirements. By collecting Cardio Ox ultrasound and ECG data, along with blood and urine samples, scientists are trying to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): Today a 51S crewmember completed their tenth FMS session. The FMS investigation studies how the fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of the investigation is to determine how fine motor performance in microgravity varies over the duration of six-month and year-long space missions; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance varies before and after gravitational transitions, including periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods. 

