
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): The crew performed several BCM research sessions consisting of a set of 12 runs/tests each. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight. This experiment also evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crewmembers to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember, who has spent months in weightlessness, can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Photos were taken of the plants growing in the XROOTS experiment, which is currently in day 17 of the ~30-day growth cycle. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
International Commercial Experiment (ICE) Cube: Experiment cube #11 was used to support the Code4Space challenge demonstration. ICE Cube #11 flew to the ISS with the winning submission of the Code4Space competition from a team of sixth graders from Switzerland. The team designed and programmed a Space-Bounce-Ball that consists of a microcontroller embedded in a foam ball for an astronaut to throw at a target while on the ISS. Measurements from the microcontroller such as acceleration, time, and number of bounces are transmitted to a laptop computer on Earth and compared with the results from a duplicate experiment conducted on the ground.
ISS Ham Pass: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with Monroe Carell Jr. Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt in Nashville, TN. Some of the questions asked by the students included how much the astronauts get to talk to their families, if the astronauts can see hurricanes and storms develop from space, and how high the ISS can fly. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about 9 minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM): The crew removed the combustion chamber door, inspected the area around the extrusion fastener, and then reassembled the system. The SCEM facility has been most recently used to support the Fundamental Research on International Standard of Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions (FLARE) investigation. FLARE, a JAXA investigation, explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena, and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Wireless Compose-2 (WiCo-2): The crew participated in a Ballistocardiography session using the SmartTex-2 shirt. Ballistocardiography looks at body motion related to the pumping of blood by the heart. A questionnaire was also filled out to give feedback on the session, the experiment data was transferred, and the configuration of the Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs) was checked. The main scientific goal of the WiCo-2 investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, low-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS. For this demonstration, WiCo-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system. Additionally, WiCo-2 demonstrates newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide-band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiate & Terminate: As part of regularly scheduled preventive maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill. By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as a burp, the crew depressurized the flush water tank and the water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Operations: Today, the crew setup the recycle tank to drain to the brine processor using the brine processor transfer hose. As part of the setup, the crew removed the used brine processor bladder and installed a new, empty bladder into the brine processor. Ground specialists then performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS), and the crew changed out the offload EDV. Lastly, the crew configured the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) fill drain valve and connected the UTS transfer compressor hose for nominal processing operations. 

