
Robonaut Leg Installation: Commander (CDR) Swanson attached Robonaut’s mobility legs to the torso.  After the legs were installed, Swanson installed the Inertial Measurement Unit Bracket and Tentacle Board. The Kidney Fan, Backpack, and Cortex Box were reinstalled before replacing the side panels and soft goods. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) Sample Swap: Swanson removed an ACE-M-2 Sample from the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) and replaced it with a new, unanalyzed ACE-M-2 sample. Swanson also swapped a light cable to change to a different lamp source in the FIR. The cable swap was unsuccessful and ground teams are still seeing light intensity fluctuations and are exploring options resolve the issue. In the ACE-M-2 investigation, a model colloidal system is used to observe the microscopic behavior of liquids and gases separating from each other near the critical point via a process called spinodal decomposition.
Biolab Maintenance: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst exchanged the Biolab incubator biological isolation filters and cold spot sponge. This is in preparation for the Triplelux-B investigation scheduled for delivery on SpaceX-5.
Airlock (A/L) Reconfiguration for Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS):  FE-5 Wiseman continued relocating airlock hardware in preparation for the future NORS installation. Today he relocated items from the A/L attic to the basement and other locations.
Ocular Health (OH) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Fundoscope Eye Examinations: With each acting alternately as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and subject, and with remote guidance from ground experts, Wiseman and Gerst performed OCT and Fundoscope exams. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment and intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector B (LEE- B) Photography: This morning, robotics ground controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to position LEE- B in front of Cupola Window 3.  Wiseman then performed a photographic survey of the LEE-B snare cables, a routine activity performed after each 20 LEE cycles to look for snare fraying.

