ISS On-Orbit Status 08/28/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Sunday – Crew off-duty day.   Ahead: Week 24 of Increment 28
 
As part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel.
 
CDR Borisenko completed the daily routine inspection of the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, checking for proper fan operation by testing the air flow from the ventilators BO A04 &amp; BO A05 and verifying that both LEDs (Light Emitting Diodes) are lit.          [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).] 
 
FE-4 Volkov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.      [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].
 
For today’s VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activities, FE-3 Garan powered on the European ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular 2) camera payload, shooting onboard scenes.  This started an internal clock in ERB-2 which shut the system down after 80 minutes, at which time Ron again activated the system for another 80 min of 3D video taking, stored on SSC-8 (Station Support Computer 8) laptop for downlink.       [The stereoscopic ERB-2 has produced the first live 3-D video images in the 50-year history of spaceflight aboard the ISS for ESA's Research &amp; Technology Center in the Netherlands.]
 
CDR, FE-1, FE-3 &amp; FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Andrey at ~10:20am, Sasha at ~10:50am, Ron at ~12:00pm, Satoshi at ~3:35pm EDT.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR).
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

