
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Operations Status:  Overnight, the ground team was unsuccessful in their attempt to deploy four Cosmogia Dove CubeSats from deployers #7 and #8 via the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS).  This morning they performed additional attempts on deployers #4, #5 and #7 without success. Teams are investigating the problem and working a forward plan.
Sprint Ultrasound: With assistance from Commander (CDR) Swanson, Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman took Sprint ultrasound data for his Flight Day (FD) 90 ultrasound Sprint session. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are on FD 14, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and R-7 for mission duration of six months and are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
Body Measures: With assistance from Swanson, FE-6 Gerst conducted his FD 80 session of Body Measures. He set up body marker instrumentation and took calibration and body pose pictures as well as circumference measurements. He then recorded a neutral body posture video. The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight. Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Facility for Absorption and Surface Tension (FASTER) Uninstall: Gerst removed FASTER from the European Drawer Rack (EDR) and packed it for return on a future flight for refurbishment. FASTER was delivered to the ISS on SpX-3 and the science was completed from the ground. The experiment investigated links between emulsion stability and physico-chemical characteristics of droplet interfaces. 
Japanese Experiment Module (JPM) Payload Data Handling Unit (PDH) Replacement:  Swanson replaced the PDH which failed in January with a new unit that arrived on Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5.   The activity restored redundancy for JAXA payload commanding and payload data downlink.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Version 5 (v5) Transition:   Today, ground controllers successfully completed the SSCv5 transition.   SSCv5 updated the operating systems, security, and data storage for the on-board Ops LAN.

