
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides which isolated the rack, allowing ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. A toluene and heptane mixture was used for this test point. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. Results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding of how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Robonaut Upgrade: Upon power up after yesterday’s successful leg installation, ground teams were unable to see Robonaut telemetry. Commander (CDR) Swanson tried different cable connections and took pictures of the Cortex box for analysis. Robonaut was stowed while teams work on a forward plan. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Laser Infra-Red Imaging Sensors (LIRIS) Retrieval: FE-6 Gerst removed the LIRIS rendezvous sensor equipment from Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 and packed components for return on 38 Soyuz. LIRIS was used to demonstrate the feasibility of two different rendezvous sensor technologies (Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) and Infrared (IR) camera) during ATV approach to the ISS. Testing such technologies in the ISS flight environment will help to advance European navigation technologies to help validate future rendezvous sensors for both cooperative and non-cooperative targets, including orbiting debris or an un-manned capsule.
Microbiology Surface/Air Sampling: Using a surface sampling kit, Wiseman performed bacterial and fungal sampling for microbial analysis. Samples were taken in COL, Japanese Experiment Module (JEM), Nodes 1, 2 and 3, US Lab, Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) and Airlock. He also sampled ISS air for microbes using the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS).
Airlock (A/L) Reconfiguration for Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS):  Swanson continued this activity to relocate items from the A/L to other locations in preparation for NORS installation. The installation will be scheduled at a later date.
Cargo Transfer Activities: Swanson pre-packed US items to be loaded into 38S which is scheduled to undock on September 10. He also pre-packed return items in preparation for Space-X 4 which is scheduled to launch on September 19.
Ocular Health (OH) Optical Coherence Fundoscope and Cardiac Examinations: With each acting alternately as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and subject, and with remote guidance from ground experts, Wiseman and Gerst performed ultrasound exams. Then, with Swanson as operator, Gerst completed cardiac operations. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment and intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.

