
Post Russia Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 35 Status: Following yesterdays 5 hour and 58 minute EVA, the ISS Crew went to sleep an hour later than usual. Today the entire crew woke up an hour late and the Russian crew had a half-duty day for the Russian crewmembers while the USOS crew works a shortened day.
Columbus Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG)-A Install: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano removed the Columbus Payload Ethernet Payload Ethernet Hub / Gateway (PEHG) and replaced it with a new, improved PEHG (iPEHG). The new IPEHG design corrects performance limitations often experienced by the older PEHG.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Remove and Replace: As part of nominal maintenance activities, FE-3 Cassidy removed and replaced the Regenerative ECLSS Tank.
Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Kit and Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Sample Collection: FE-3 Cassidy and FE-5 Parmitano will be taking Air and Surface Samples to get a better understanding of microbial growth within the ISS modules.  The samples will be analyzed on-orbit and results will be shared with ground specialists.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3: FE-6 Nyberg will redistribute the particles in the vial assembly, activate InSPACE equipment, configure the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) facility for downlink, and begin InSPACE 3 operations. InSPACE3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state by the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and can improve the design of structures.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Status: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 4 to Worksite 6.  Later today they will walk the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off the Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) and onto Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF1.  Finally they will maneuver the SSRMS to pick up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in preparation for the start of H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 4 Exposed Pallet (EP) SPDM operations on Saturday, August 24.

