ISS On-Orbit Status 08/25/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
As part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection, CDR Borisenko performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as well as the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
At wake-up, FE-3 Garan, FE-5 Furukawa &amp; FE-6 Fossum completed another post-sleep shift session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
FE-1 Samokutyayev conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  Alex terminated the process at ~3:35pm EDT.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.      [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]
 
Ron Garan set up the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware including MBS (Mixing Bag System) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), and then conducted his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max assessment, integrated with Thermolab.  Afterwards, Ron powered down, cleaned up and partially stowed the equipment, then downloaded the data to a PCS laptop.   Mike Fossum’s turn at VO<sub>2</sub>max is tomorrow.      [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
Satoshi Furukawa unstowed the water samples collected from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) on 7/27 and 8/24, and subjected them to in-flight analysis with the CWQMK (Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit), first establishing an Iodine standard, then completing the Silver standard and analysis.    [Data were downloaded afterwards and the CWQMK kit stowed.]
 
Satoshi also supported SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center/Tsukuba) in troubleshooting the JAXA 3D TM750 camcorder in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) by activating the camera and taking a video in Kibo, for SSIPC to check out the 3D HD (High Definition) image subsequently.  Afterwards, the camera was turned off and stowed.
 
In the US Lab, Mike Fossum had 2h45m blocked out to perform IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) on the CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) Bed 202 in the ARS (Atmosphere Revitalization System) rack at D6 whose temperature sensor A has shown signs of degradation.       [Purpose of today’s procedure was to bypass the degraded sensor by using four 22-gauge pin/socket jumpers to provide connectivity between CDRA Bed 202 Temp Sensors B and C while omitting Temp Sensor A.  Bed 202 had to be removed for the jumper installation.]
 
Afterwards, Mike connected the CDRA ITCS LTL (Internal Thermal Control System Low Temperature Loop) loop for cooling, to allow post-maintenance checkout.  Telemetry then showed that both temperature sensors A &amp; B were reporting invalid temperatures, indicating a problem with the jumper installation.     [Ground teams are reviewing data to determine what further actions are needed.]
 
Fossum also conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.       [The current card (28-0014J) lists 118 good CWCs (2,814.1 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (32 CWCs with 1,332.8 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 872.3 L in 21 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 390.8 L in 9 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. Iodinated water (74 CWCs with 1,333.6 L (also 33 expired bags with 603.2 L);  4. condensate water (130.9 L in 9 bags, plus 1 empty bag); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (37.0 L in 2 CWCs, incl. 20.2 L from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
CDR Borisenko did the daily routine inspection of the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, checking for proper fan operation by testing the air flow from the ventilators BO A04 &amp; BO A05 and verifying that both LEDs (Light Emitting Diodes) are lit, then watering the root modules KM A32 &amp; A24 to the roper humidity level.        [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).] 
 
Later, Borisenko finished up the water sampling in the SM started on 8/22, today collecting two KAV condensate samples upstream of the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit in empty drink bags and packing them for return to Earth on Soyuz 26S.
 
FE-3 Garan opened the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, so ground images can be captured today by ground commanding.  At sleeptime tonight, Satoshi will close the shutters again.      [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
Garan also installed the 4 PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab at S3 to protect the rack from external loading (dynamic disturbances).
 
Afterwards, Ron &amp; Satoshi each had ~90 min to make preparations for using the PMA-2 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 2), now no longer needed for Shuttle arrivals, as a most welcome stowage compartment, pre-gathering cargo from behind racks.       [Items were retrieved and restowed per uplinked lists at a staging location in Node-2 (about one-third of the cargo planned for PMA-2).  The remaining items will be temp stowed elsewhere, and the crew will be allotted 4.5 hrs tomorrow for the actual PAM-2 stowage activity.]
 
Samokutyayev performed the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
FE-1 also undertook the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on a review of all topics.  At the end, FE-1 completed a self-assessment questionnaire.  Answers were then provided at test conclusion.     [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
Later, Sasha used the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, for the monthly standard check on the SM cabin air, testing for Carbon Monoxide (CO) and Formaldehyde.       [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C<sub>8</sub>H<sub>10</sub>), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur dioxide, Hydrogen Cyanide, Phosgene, etc.]
 
Andrey Borisenko continued the IMS (Inventory Management System)-tracked unloading &amp; transferring of cargo from Progress 42P.
 
Ron performed the periodic manual fill of the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) EDV-SV (Condensate Water Container) flush water tank from the PWB (Potable Water Bus) for about 21 min (during which WHC was not available).
 
FE-3 also filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
In the US A/L (Airlock), Fossum checked the IMV (Intermodule Ventilation) panel screen to see if it was uninstalled, in which case he was to install it in the correct location.
 
Sergei Volkov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Andrey took on the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Volkov worked on the inboard part of the GFI-17 “MOLNIYA” FOTON-GAMMA hardware, checking out its MKSD data control &amp; monitoring unit, supported by ground specialist tagup.     [The MOLNIYA-GAMMA space experiment is designed to study gamma and optical bursts during thunderstorm activity.]
 
Later, Sergei conducted another session with the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) experiment at SM window #2 for another sun-glint observation session, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor), synchronized with the coaxially mounted NIKON D2X camera for taking snapshots, and later downloaded the data to laptop RS1 for subsequent downlink via OCA (Orbital Communications Adapter).  The equipment was then torn down and stowed away.       [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.]
 
Andrey &amp; Sasha each had time aside for personal crew departure preparations; these are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers.
 
At ~3:55am EDT, the crewmembers, except Mike, held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~4:10am, Sasha, Andrey &amp; Sergei linked up with TsUP stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~5:10am, Andrey, Sergei &amp; Sasha supported two Russian PAO TV downlinks, transmitting messages of greetings &amp; congratulations to (1) the city of Kaluga which is celebrating its 649<sup>th</sup> birthday on 8/27, and to (2) the World Ocean Museum in Kaliningrad which, along with GCTC, is conducting the “A Question to a Cosmonaut” Initiative.     [“Dear Kaluga residents, it is a pleasure to wish you happy City Day!  It is very gratifying to address our anniversary wishes to the residents of a city where Konstantin Eduardovich Tsiolkovsky, an outstanding scientist, used to live.  His brave and incredible dreams were able to open a gate to stars for humanity.  Therefore, dare to dream, create, venture out, and then you will be able to reach cosmic results in anything you do.  Happy holiday to you, Kaluga residents!  Happy Birthday, Kaluga!”]  
 
At ~10:20am. Garan, Furukawa &amp; Fossum joined for a PAO TV event, responding to interviews with two clients – KGO-TV, San Francisco, CA (Greg DeRego) and SPACE.com (Tariq Malik).
 
At ~2:00pm, Ron conducted his regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
Borisenko &amp; Volkov used ~90 min for filming another installment of the “The Orbital Station. Life on Orbit” video, intended for a documentary film to be prepared by the Roskosmos TV studio for the “Kultura” State TV channel.      [Film authors are asking Russian ISS crew members to take video according to the uplinked scenario and to give an interview during a comm pass scheduled later.]
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, Ron turns on the MPC and starts the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC was to be turned off again.      [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), 2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-1, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).  The ARED workouts by CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6 were video recorded for ground inspection.
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Chiloe Island, southern Chile (HMS Beagle Site:  ISS had a mid-morning pass with partly cloudy weather expected.  At the uplinked time, the crew was to look just left of track for this large, rugged, and forested island as ISS approached the southern coast of Chile from the SW.  Trying for context views of the island as a whole. Darwin arrived at this island on June 12, 1834), St. Paul Rocks islets, Brazil (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin and the Beagle briefly visited this isolated, equatorial Atlantic site in early February of 1832.  This tiny group of islets and rocks is also known as the Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago.  The islands are of particular interest to geologists as they expose rocks associated with the Earth's mantle above sea level.  At the uplinked time, the crew was to aim just left of track for the islands as they approached the area from the SW.  With early afternoon light and a few clouds they should have been able to photograph all of them in a detailed mapping pass), Rome, Italy (“The Eternal City” and capital of Italy [population ~2.7 million] lies just inland from sea on the western coastline of the Italian peninsula.  As ISS tracked northeastward on this late afternoon pass in clear weather, the crew was to look near nadir for a context view of the Rome metropolitan), Lake Poopo, Bolivia (ISS approached this high-elevation interior basin target from the SW at the uplinked time.  The effects of the past La Niña episode are being felt markedly in the high Andes.  Lake Poopo fluctuates greatly under the influence of the El Niño/La Niña cycle.  Comparative images show the changes in Lake Poopo during a prior La Niña.  ISS had an ideal midday pass in clear weather for mapping along its orbit track to document water levels in Lake Poopo and the nearby dry lakebeds [salars]), and Major Hurricane Irene (a distinct eye is visible in recent satellite imagery and further strengthening is anticipated.  The best ISS pass of the day was to the NW of the storm in mid-afternoon light.  At this time as ISS tracked northeastward just off the Florida coast, the crew was to look right of track for Irene trying for both contextual views and, if possible, detailed views of the eye structure).
 

