
Robonaut Assembly: Commander (CDR) Swanson set up Robonaut and powered up the hardware to allow the ground team to start a six hour power soak. Tomorrow, Swanson will begin procedures to install legs on Robonaut. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
MAGVECTOR Installation: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst began installation of MAGVECTOR into the European Drawer Rack (EDR).  MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The setup will provide initial insights into the principal feasibility on board the ISS, future improvements and phenomenological trends and dependencies. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the Ram and Wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research.
Intravehicular Activity (IVA) Clothing Study: FE-5 Wiseman and Gerst started their 15-day IVA Clothing study to wear commercially available lightweight clothes that have been designed to resist germs. Sufficient cotton clothes for a crew of six add more than 900 pounds of freight to the ISS. Replacing crew uniforms with non-cotton apparel could reduce weight for cargo launches and trash removal, and provide crewmembers with more comfortable, longer lasting clothes.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R): Wiseman and Swanson completed this activity begun yesterday to remove and replace the FPS in Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011. Following the R&R, Wiseman stowed the tools used for the task. The removed FPS will be returned on 38S. A Return To Service (RTS) test will be conducted prior to the suit being considered for EVA use.
Hatch Seal Inspection: Wiseman cleaned and inspected USOS hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surfaces and hatch handle mechanisms for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) or damage. The inspection was performed on Node 2, Node 3, Permanent Multi-purpose Module (PMM), Columbus and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) hatches. No issues were reported.

