
BioLab Microscope D&C Cassette Troubleshooting:  Following yesterdays successful Part A of the Microscope troubleshooting and initialization, Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano continued with Part B of the troubleshooting by extracting the BioLab HM drawer, installing a Microscope cassette, verifying the correct fit of the cassette, and close up of the microscope.  The ground subsequently performed a successful functional test of the microscope.  The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. It will be used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab will allow scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Robonaut Teleoperations: Today FE-3 Cassidy performed Robonaut Teleoperations.  With cooperation from ground teams, Cassidy controlled Robonaut to perform soft-good manipulation operations.  Robonaut is a humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware and react safely when bumped or following interaction. Robonaut is currently deployed inside the ISS but future project goals include mobility outside the ISS in the extravehicular environment.
35 Soyuz (35S) Emergency On-Board Training (OBT): FE-4 Yurchikhin, FE-5 Parmitano, and FE-6 Nyberg conducted a 35S Emergency OBT session.  The crew reviewed and practiced Soyuz specific emergency response procedures followed by a debrief of the session with ground controllers.
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope: With Cassidy acting as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), and ground specialists assisting in remote guidance, both Parmitano and Nyberg performed Fundoscope examinations. OH aims to systematically gather physiological data to characterize the Risk of Microgravity-Induced Visual Impairment/Intracranial Pressure on crewmembers assigned to a 6 month ISS increment. The data collected will mirror requirements and testing performed during annual medical exams with an increase in the frequency of in-flight and post flight testing to more accurately assess changes that occur in the visual, vascular, and central nervous systems upon exposure to microgravity and the resulting fluid shifts.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Status/Ops: Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and stowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2.  The Mobile Transporter (MT) was then translated from Worksite (WS) 7 to WS4.  The team is currently walking off the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from MBS PDGF3 to the Node 2 PDGF in preparation for the External Pallet (EP) handoff from the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to the SSRMS and insertion into the H­‑II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 4 tomorrow.  MSS performance has been nominal.

