
SpaceX (SpX)-9 Unberth: The crew packed critical items and egressed the vehicle in preparation for Dragon departure.  Dragon was unberthed from the ISS via ground commanding at 4 PM CDT today. The vehicle will be maneuvered via ground commanding to an overnight park position in preparation for release tomorrow at 5:11 AM CDT with splashdown approximately 5 hours later.

Polar 1 ISS to Dragon Transfer: Polar 1 was powered down, de-cabled, and removed from the EXPRESS Rack and transferred to the starboard powered payload location of SpX-9. A second crew member concurrently installed and powered the Polar and Transportation Cage Unit of the Mouse Epigenetics investigation into the Dragon.
Double Coldbag Pack: The crew transferred cold samples and required Ice Bricks from MELFI-2, MELFI-3, Glacier 2, MERLIN 5, and SABL S/N 2 into Double Coldbags in preparation for Dragon descent.

Biological Rhythms 48 Multi Media Card Exchange: The crew stopped the 24-hour recording that began yesterday, changed out the Multi Media Card and battery of the Digital Walk Holter ECG, and began the second 24-hour recording. The objective of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Biological Rhythms 48 is to study the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. 
Mouse Epigenetics Transfer and Closeout Operations: The crew prepared all twelve of theTransportation Cage Units (TCU) before removing the Mouse Habitat Cage Units from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and transferring the mice into the TCUs in the Glove Box for return. The crew also transferred the food cartridges and disconnected the supporting Glove Box hardware.
LS-1 Server Issues: Last night the LS-1 server had to be rebooted multiple times and continued to experience issues this morning. There are no major impacts at this time. The server will be rebooted as necessary. The server will be reconfigured to set up for the possibility of rebuilding a new server overnight to protect tomorrow’s SpX-9 departure.
Robotics Operations: Last night Robotics Ground Controllers actuated the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to unstow Robot Micro Conical Tool #2 (RMCT2) from the SPDM Tool Holster Assembly (THA) in preparation for the Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) P12B_A change out operations this Friday and Saturday.

