
Multi-Omics-Mouse: The crew performed routine maintenance on the Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Units that are being maintained in microgravity, exchanging waste collection equipment and odor filters. Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In the Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, to determine if they improve the gut environment and immune function.  After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis. 
Cool Flames Investigation: The crew replaced Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Fuel Reservoir in support of continued operations for the Cool Flames investigation.  Cool Flames provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out, but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment.
SSRMS LEE A Unable to Latch to MBS Base 3:  Robotics operations Tuesday evening were scheduled to include an MT Translate, an SSRMS Walkoff to MBS Base 3, and an SPDM Unstow in preparation for the P12B_B RPCM R&R that was scheduled for Wednesday evening.  During the SSRMS Walkoff, ROBO was unable to latch LEE A to MBS Base 3.  High motor currents were observed as the latches on the LEE were being driven. The SSRMS is currently in a safe configuration with LEE B grappled to the Node 2 PDGF.  The SPDM is still stowed. The Robotics team is in agreement to stand down on operations until a FIT is convened to discuss the LEE latch motor current data in more detail.  It should be noted the LEE A latches are not required to support a Dragon release.  As a result of the inability to complete Tuesday evening’s planned operations, the RPCM R&R scheduled for Wednesday evening has been postponed. 
On-Board Training (OBT) Medical Emergency: The 51S crew reviewed medical emergency procedures and rescuer roles during a medical event requiring Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) including emergency medical hardware configuration and determine desired deployed locations. During the training they covered crew communication and coordination of care. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Status: Yesterday the crew reported a clicking noise emanating from T2 that had not been heard previously.  The crew took video and audio which were downlinked for ground team evaluation and T2 was declared no-go for exercise. Video and audio revealed no obvious sources so the crew was directed to perform T2 annual maintenance. Again, no sources were identified so the crew was given a go to use T2 but to monitor performance and report any further clicking noises.

