
Progress 85P Docking: Following the completion of a 34-orbit rendezvous, 85P successfully docked to the Aft Service Module port last night at 10:45 PM CDT. The crew then performed leak checks, opened hatches, and began unloading cargo. 85P delivered food, fuel, and supplies to the ISS and will be used to reboost the station.
Payloads:
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham Radio session was initiated with Australian Air League – South Australia Group, Salisbury, South Australia. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Nanoracks Bishop Airlock (NRAL) Operations for Gambit: The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) grappled the NRAL Vestibule with the Gambit hardware installed inside from yesterday’s activities. With the arm now supplying power to NRAL, the crew then removed utility jumpers and installed required hardware prior to depressurization. Next, the crew inspected the hatch seals, configured the Node 3 Port for demating, and setup depressurization equipment. Ground controllers then initiated the initial depressurization of the NRAL. Ground controllers will continue to monitor and command the NRAL depressurization and thermal stabilization over the weekend. On Monday, Robotics ground controllers plan to perform the Gambit Sortie to demate NRAL, install Gambit on an exterior NRAL site, and then remate NRAL to Node 3. The objective of Gambit is to evaluate and catalog performance of the NRAL external sites. Gambit will be moved to all six external NRAL sites throughout the course of the investigation, and various sensors measure temperature, vibrations, and radiation to characterize each site. Results could support design and development of future science investigations that use these sites.
Project EAGLE: Media was exchanged in the Project EAGLE BioCell samples. Culturing human cardiomyocytes or heart cells holds potential for disease modelling and drug discovery. In microgravity, cardiac cells can grow into three dimensional cultures that have better structural maturation compared with two dimensional cultures grown on Earth. ISS: Engineering Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Microtissues with Metabolic Regulators in Space to Promote Cardiomyocyte Maturation (Project EAGLE) grows three dimensional cultures of cardiomyocytes that could provide a better model of heart disease and improve assessment of therapeutic measures.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules-Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (SUBSA-ugGA): The SUBSA hardware was uninstalled from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and samples were prepared for return on Crew-6. This completes all operations for SUBSA-ugGA. SUBSA-ugGA seeks to create a graphene aerogel on the ISS. Microgravity is expected to alleviate effects of Earth’s gravity, such as agglomeration, sedimentation, and thermal convection, and enable production of a superior, uniform material structure. This research could lay the groundwork for the engineering of bulk quantities of graphene aerogel with exceptional physical properties for applications in power storage, environmental protection, and chemical sensing.
Systems:
ISS Communication Data Converter (ICDC) Installation: Today, the crew installed the spare ICDC and ICDC Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Galois Counter-Mode Unit (AGU) in the LAB1P5. Because this hardware is a spare, it will not have any data or power connections mated. The ICDC is a new Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) built to replace the legacy encryption hardware on the ISS. The two primary ICDCs were installed in early July in the Node 3 Starboard Aft Endcone and the USL MSS 1 rack in the LAB.
Crew-7 Arrival and Crew-6 Departure Preparations: The Endeavour crew was allotted time to prepare for their departure and the arrival of Crew-7. During this time, the crew prepared personal items for return and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks. Today, the crew gathered first use supplies and other preference items from NOD2O2 and PMA3 and gathered Countermeasures Systems (CMS) exercise accessories for arriving crew. Last night, the Crew-7 launch was delayed in order to give the ground team sufficient time to resolve open work items. Crew-7 launch is now scheduled for Saturday, Aug 26th, at 2:27 AM CDT with docking on Sunday, Aug 27th, at 7:39 CDT AM.
