
Robonaut Leg Installation: Commander (CDR) Swanson temporarily removed the Robonaut front and side torso panels, backpack, and kidney panel in preparation for tomorrow when he will attach the torso and mobility legs. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
ISS Ham Radio:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst conducted the 900th ISS ham radio pass today.   He talked with students at Dorothy Grant Elementary School in Fontana, CA about life in space. 
Reboost: This morning the ISS performed a reboost using Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Orbital Control System (OCS) thrusters to set up phasing to support 38S landing on September 10. Burn duration was 2 minutes, 58 seconds with a Delta-V of 0.43 meters per second. A reboost planned for September 18 will finalize phasing for 40S 4-orbit rendezvous on September 25.
On-Board Training (OBT) 39 Soyuz Emergency Drill: FE-5 Wiseman, Gerst and FE-4 Suraev performed this regularly scheduled emergency egress drill. The crew reviewed procedures associated with nominal and off nominal Soyuz descent scenarios.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation: This morning Swanson and Wiseman completed routine health status evaluations with each acting alternately as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and subject. Gerst also completed his evaluation with Swanson as CMO.
Ocular Health (OH) Examination: Wiseman and Gerst took blood pressure readings and performed tonometry tests. The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crew members.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.

