
New Status:
Spinal Ultrasound Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano, with FE-3 Cassidy’s assistance, performed his second of three Spinal Ultrasound Scan sessions for his stay onboard the ISS.  This investigation aims to characterize microgravity-associated spinal alterations during and after spaceflight using in-flight ultrasound. Results from this research will provide data to enhance crew health for long duration space missions.
Multifiltration (MF) Bed Remove and  Replace (R&R): Based on Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) data the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) product water was exhibiting an increase in Total Organic Carbon (TOC) trends, similar to what was observed in 2010 and 2012 which were attributed to dimethylsilanediol (DMSD) breakthrough in the MF Beds.  To correct the trend, FE-3 Cassidy performed an R&R of both MF Beds.  The removed MF beds were injected with an air bubble to protect for thermal expansion.
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #35 Preparation:  The Russian crewmembers are scheduled for a half-duty day today, and went to sleep early, as they will be waking up 3 hours early tomorrow.  RS EVA #35 requires Russian Ground Sites (RGS) support, and the earlier EVA start time is needed to align the crew activities with the ground sites.
Photovoltaic Controller Unit (PVCU) Bracket Bolt Replacement: FE-3 Cassidy replaced the ACME bolt, which was scavenged from the PVCU MDM/Bracket to support troubleshooting of the MBSU Removal and Replacement during US EVA 19.
Material Science Laboratory (MSL) Solidification and Quench Furnace (SQF) Sample Cartridge Exchange:  In May 2013, ground commanded processing of Solidification along a Eutectic path in Ternary Alloys (SETA) SCA-2 #4 within the Materials Science Laboratory (MSL) was aborted due to a reboot of the MSL Standard Payload Computer (SPLC). Engineering team has developed an operational and/or software response in the event of a SPLC reboot event. Today FE-5 Parmitano removed the SETA SCA-2 sample that has been in the SQF since this failure and replaced it with a new sample that will be used for a future run of the SQF.

