
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): Experiment data was transferred from the APM for subsequent downlink to the ground. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on sources of such particles.
AstroPi: Following the completion of the nighttime photography testing last week, the AstroPi Vis unit was removed from the Node 2 window and returned to the Columbus module. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an infrared (IR) camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Photos were taken of the plants growing in the four Root Modules in the XROOTS system. The XROOTS experiment is currently in day 22 of the ~30-day growth cycle for the third planting. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): The crew performed skin marking on the designated experiment target areas and took measurements using the MyotonPRO device. The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth as well as for future space missions.
Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging): The crew gathered urine samples and prepared for blood sampling in support of the Phospho-aging investigation.  Phospho-aging examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified CalciProtein Particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tether Inspection: Today to prepare for the upcoming EVAs, the crew inspected all the safety tethers and D-ring extenders. The crew inspected for Micrometeoroid/Orbital Debris (MMOD) damage or discoloration that could diminish the structural integrity of the tethers. The crew also transferred necessary tools for the upcoming RS EVA #54A which is a series of EVAs to finish configuration of the European Robotic Arm (ERA).
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between the US and IP Russia, the crew continues to transfer water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter R&R: The PWD filter On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) is composed of a de-iodination and microbial filter, which needs periodic replacement. The crew removed and replaced the PWD’s filter and cleaned the exhaust fans’ outlets as part of preventive maintenance.

