
42 Soyuz (42S) Relocation: Overnight, 42S was successfully relocated from Mini Research Module (MRM) 2 Zenith to Service Module Aft. The relocation was performed in preparation for 44S scheduled docking to MRM 2 Zenith on September 4.  42S return to Earth is currently planned for September 11. The 42S crew continued sleep shifting, going to bed at 9:30 am CDT (1430 GMT).
 
Microbe IV: Lindgren collected air and surface samples in different locations of the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) using the Particle Counter and the Surface, Water and Air Biocharacterization Air Sampling Device (SWAB ASD). Additional samples using an adhesive sheet were collected and stored in MELFI for return on a future flight. The Microbe IV experiment aims to research microbial dynamics in a crewed habitat in space which is vital for safe and healthy long duration space habitation.  Human and microbes have a close relationship and research on this relationship in a space habitation environment is critical for success in long-duration mission.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: 

Yui and Lindgren completed their Flight Day (FD) 30 Ocular Health activities today, performing both ocular and cardiac ultrasounds. The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Kelly and Kornienko performed their morning Reaction Self-Test and another session prior to sleep. Reaction Self-Test aids crewmembers to objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
Kelly and Kornienko continue sleep logging. The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.

 
Kobairo Microgravity Measurement Apparatus (MMA) Removal:  In preparation for the Mouse Habitat Unit installation and checkout scheduled next week, Yui removed the MMA Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) and MMA Triaxial Acceleration Assembly (TAA) from the Kobairo Rack. The JAXA MHU, delivered on HTV5, is JAXA’s unique facility for rodent research consisting of 12 mouse cages with life support system, environment controlling system and observation system. The MHU is attached to the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and has a centrifuge that enables experiments to be performed on microgravity and artificial gravity simultaneously.
 
NanoRacks Multi-Gas Monitor (MGM): Lindgren deployed the MGM in the Lab on EXPRESS Rack 8. The MGM is the first laser sensor to continuously measure four gases that are key for crewmembers’ health aboard the ISS. The multiple low-power, tunable lasers train an infrared laser beam on a cabin air sample, and sensors are tuned to specific wavelengths of light detect oxygen, carbon dioxide, ammonia, and humidity. The instrument fits in a device the size of a shoebox and detects the presence of gases in less than one second.
 
HTV Cargo Transfer Status:  Kelly, Lindgren and Yui continued HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today.
 
 

