
New Status:
Spinal Ultrasound Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy performed his final of three Spinal Ultrasound Scan sessions for his stay onboard the ISS.  This investigation aims to characterize microgravity-associated spinal alterations during and after spaceflight using in-flight ultrasound. Results from this research will provide data to enhance crew health for long duration space missions.
Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) InfraRed (IR) Imager Replacement: FE-6 Nyberg replaced the FPEF IR imager with a new IR imager that arrived on HTV-4.  The new IR imager was installed in preparation for the Dynamic Surf experiment planned to start in Increment 37.  FPEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility housed within the Ryutai Rack and is used to investigate fluid physics phenomena in microgravity.  The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments that examine Marangoni convection, or flow, a process driven by the presence of surface tension gradient as produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. Fluid convection observations of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other within the FPEF. By observing and understanding how such fluids move researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity, and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.
Surface Telerobotics Operations:  FE-6 Nyberg performed the last of three planned sessions in this increment of the Surface Telerobotics experiment.  This investigation examines how the crew can effectively tele-operate ground robots from orbit to simulate activities, such as landing site validation and traverse scouting, while constrained by factors related to the space environment, crew vehicle resources and communications.
Deck Crew Quarters Cleaning:  FE-5 Parmitano has cleaned the Deck Crew Quarters intake and exhaust duct, fan and airflow sensor as a standard preventative maintenance activity.
Node 3 Condensate Sampling:  FE-3 Cassidy sampled condensate from the Node 3 waste water bus.  These samples will be returned to the ground on 34S for analysis.

