
Payloads
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments/Cool Flames Investigation with Gasses (CIR/ACME/CFI-G): A crewmember exchanged a used 100% propane bottle with a new bottle of the same composition.  Cool diffusion flames were discovered during droplet combustion experiments aboard the ISS in 2012, and this initiated a rapidly growing field of combustion research.  A cool flame is one that burns at about 600 degrees Celsius.  A typical candle is about two times hotter, burning at around 1,400 degrees Celsius.  Most internal combustion engines are designed using computer models that neglect cool flame chemistry, but ignition and flame propagation in engines depend on cool flame chemistry. Cool flame chemistry also has a significant impact on fuel octane and cetane numbers, whose understanding has large economic consequences.
ISS Experience Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Z-Camera: The crew participated in ISS Experience Cupola activities related to Earth observation and sunrise, while being filmed by the ISS Experience EVA Z-Camera.  The ISS Experience is a cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station.  Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
ISS Ham pass: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with Carl Fuhlrott-Gymnasium, Wuppertal, Germany.  Some of the questions asked by the students included how astronauts brush their teeth, if astronauts take any personal items with them, and where oxygen on the ISS comes from.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents, and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground Ham radio units.
Ring Sheared Drop: The crew removed the processed syringe and installed a new syringe.  Due to static issues partially affecting the processed sample, the crew will take additional steps designed to reduce any static charge buildup.  The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid.  Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues; amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s.  Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL):  The crew installed SABL S/N 4 in the EXPRESS Rack 8, Locker 2 location in the JEM.  SABL supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28vdc and 5vdc power supplies for investigation use.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Tomorrow’s ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 4A Prep EVA has been delayed, a new date for the EVA has not yet been set. Prior to the decision to delay tomorrow’s USOS EVA, the crew had completed the Equipment Lock prep and the final EVA tool configuration. Later in the day the crew did restow EVA hardware.
ISS Reboost – Saturday, August 21st, there was a successful reboost by the Russian Service Module thrusters.  The reboost resulted in a ~0.7 m/sec velocity delta.

