ISS On-Orbit Status 08/29/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway:  Week 24 of Increment 28.
 
As part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection, CDR Borisenko performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel.
 
Also during Morning Inspection, FE-1 Samokutyayev did the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
At wake-up, FE-3 Garan, FE-5 Furukawa &amp; FE-6 Fossum completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Furukawa &amp; Fossum undertook their 12<sup>th</sup> weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures session, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.  The required ~10h fast period started for them last night.  This is usually done on Mondays.        [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.] 
 
CDR Andrey Borisenko completed his 6<sup>th</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.      [Sergei Volkov was available to assist in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes, applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit and taking documentary photography.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Satoshi Furukawa spent several hours working on the MSPR (Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack), first setting up the G1 camcorder and MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) for live monitoring from the ground, then disconnecting all MSPR DCU (DC/DC Converter Unit) cables, checking for any debris or bent pins, re-connecting the DCU cables, verifying with an inspection mirror that each cable was fully connected and taking photos for downlink.        [On 8/19, after power cables were connected to the MSPR DCU, ground inspection of downlinked documentary photographs indicated that one of the cables was not fully connected.  This also raised concern that the other cables might not be fully connected, which would inversely affect the output current from the MSPR DCU to subcomponents, possibly rendering them nonfunctional.  MSPR power checkout was therefore aborted.  Today’s activity was to verify the cable connections.] 
 
Servicing the unpowered MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge in ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6), FE-6 Fossum cleaned its inlet and outlet filters on the back panel.     [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink],
 
FE-3 Garan started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
Afterwards, Garan had ~3 hrs set aside to reorganize items stowed inside the CHeCS RSR (Crew Health Care System / Resupply Stowage Rack) in the Lab at D4.       [The reorganization of hardware in five of the D4 lockers was intended to use stowage space more efficiently by co-locating like hardware used in associated activities, thereby providing some flexibility for increases/decreases in consumables which are expected to reduce stow/unstow time as well as prepack/unpack time.  Items that are used more frequently were to be stowed at the front of the lockers to ensure ease of access.]
 
With the FSS Photospectrograph battery freshly charged, Andrey Borisenko used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 during a one-hour segment, taking pictures of targets along the flight track, including Spain, France, Glacier Allalin, Belarus &amp; Kursk test ranges, and the Lipetsk Metallurgical Plant.         [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
Alex Samokutyayev continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today cleaning the numerous Group A ventilator fans &amp; grilles in the SM, after photographing all fan screens for ground inspection.  
 
Also for the ventilation system, Andrey Borisenko replaced the SKPF1 &amp; SKPF2 dust filters and cleaned the GZhT gas-liquid heat exchanger grill in the MRM1 Rassvet module after taking documentary photography, then updating the IMS (Inventory Management System) database.
 
Satoshi Furukawa &amp; Mike Fossum reviewed procedures and started preparations for an upcoming major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) on the MARES (Muscle Atrophy Research &amp; Exercise System).       [MARES activities will be spread over the next three days and will focus on R&amp;R (removal &amp; replacement) of some bolts and reseating the hardware, then troubleshoot the MARES Main Box which failed to power on nominally after installation.  MARES is a dynamometer that will eventually be used for research on musculoskeletal, biomechanical, and neuromuscular physiology to better understand the effects of microgravity on the muscular system.  MARES hardware comprises an adjustable chair and human restraint system, a pantograph (an articulated arm supporting the chair, used to properly position the user), a direct drive motor, associated electronics and experiment programming software, a linear adapter that translates motor rotation into linear movements, and a vibration isolation frame.  It is capable of supporting measurements &amp; exercise on seven different human joints, encompassing nine different angular movements, as well as two additional linear movements (arms and legs). It is considerably more advanced than current ground-based medical dynamometers (devices used to measure force or torque) and a vast improvement over existing ISS muscle research facilities.  MARES may be used together with an associated device called the PEMS II (Percutaneous Electrical Muscle Stimulator II).]
 
Ron Garan initiated Makita battery charging, preparatory for tomorrow’s power tool use on the MARES IFM.
 
Satoshi performed an inventory/audit of a half-CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag) containing Regenerative ECLSS TOX-2 PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) items.       [The kit is used for Regen ECLSS activities that include potential contact with TOX-2 fluids, and the audit results will ensure PPE items are properly supplied onboard.]
 
Mike Fossum uninstalled the 4 alignment guides from CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be activated before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.
 
Working on the MSL (Materials Science Laboratory), Mike performed Sample Exchange-2 #1 in the SQF (Solidification &amp; Quenching Furnace), removing a used sample cartridge and replacing it with next test sample.  The CEVIS exercise device did not have to be removed to provide safe access to the MSSR (Material Science Research Rack 1).   [The ESA/NASA MSRR-1 provides a powerful multi-user MSL with diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in micro-G to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.  MSRR experiments are coordinated by international teams that share different parts of the samples.]
 
Ron used the two hand-held CSA-O<sub>2</sub> (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) units, #1043 &amp; #1048, to take the periodic oxygen readings in the SM and COL at mid-module.
 
Later, FE-3 had ~2h20m set aside to continue unpacking &amp; stowing cargo delivered on ULF-7.
 
FE-4 Volkov inspected the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, checking for proper fan operation by hand-testing the air flow from the ventilators BO A04 &amp; BO A05 for the KM A23 &amp; A24 root modules and verifying that both LEDs (Light Emitting Diodes) are lit.  Sergei also verified the periodic watering of the root modules.     [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).] 
 
Afterwards, FE-4 set up the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) hardware at SM window #9 for another sun-glint observation session, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor), and later downloaded the data to laptop RS1 for subsequent downlink via OCA.  The equipment was then torn down and stowed away.      [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.]
 
Samokutyayev conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Volkov took on the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, FE-3 turns on the MPC and starts the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.      [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Also before sleeptime, Ron will close the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, used to capture ground images by ground commanding.        [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
At ~7:35am EDT, Borisenko, Volkov &amp; Samokutyayev supported a Russian PAO TV downlink, providing their answers to questions submitted by children on the „Questions for Cosmonauts” initiative arranged by the World Ocean Museum in Kaliningrad along with GCTC (Gagarin Cosmonauts Training Center).     [“For A. Samokutyayev: I am not yet studying physics, but my older sister has told me what is Earth gravity and I know it takes a lot of energy to break away from the pull of our planet – but why are the birds flying so easily?  And why they are not flying away into space?  And what if you let a bird out of ISS – will it fly? Thank you.  Dear cosmonauts! You see space every day. What surprises you most? Thanks. 
Hi, dear cosmonauts. I would like to thank you in advance for a chance to ask my question. 
Here it is: when you run an experiment, how do you determine the weight of objects? Do you have a special scale?  It was probably a very hard decision to become a cosmonaut… When we make our personal choices we remember, that peace of mind and happiness of people who are close to us, members of our families, depend on it. How did your family and relatives took your decision to become involved in space flight? What do they think about your profession and what you do now?  Thank for sharing your personal experience and thoughts.
Hello there! Dear cosmonauts, thanks for talking to us. Here is our question: how do you determine regional time in space? Thanks and good luck.  A human in space – it’s simultaneously a dream and a test. You have to endure very heavy physical stresses. But it’s likely that you have to withstand psychological stresses as well. What kind of emotions and inner experiences you have to encounter in space? How do you handle stress? Is it possible to learn that?  Thank you! We wish you strength, clarity and goodness in each moment on orbit.”] 
 
At ~1:35pm, Garan, Fossum &amp; Furukawa joined for a PAO Educational TV event with the Museum of Flight, Seattle, WA, attended by Senior Museum Curator Dan Hagedorn and K-12 students in the museum auditorium.     [Some questions: “For Ron:  How does the crew from such diverse backgrounds cope with their differences in language and culture?  For Mike:  How do you overcome the mental aspects of living in space such as fatigue, being with the same people for extended periods of time, and/or missing family and friends?  For Satoshi:  Does the crew eat meals together?  How do you decide what to eat?  For Ron:  If any technology (medical or mechanical) could be developed to make the training and transition from earth to space easier, what would you use it for and why?  For Mike:  Even after all your preparation for your mission; is there anything that surprised you about the ISS or living in space in general?  For Satoshi:  If you were selecting the most beautiful place on Earth based solely on what you can see from orbit, where would that be?”]
 
At ~3:05pm, Fossum is scheduled for another VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today with the VHF site at WAL/Wallops (3:10:52pm-3:18:53pm), for a voice check with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation &amp; Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).     [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]
 
CDR, FE-1 &amp; FE-4 had their standard PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Andrey at ~11:10am, Sasha at ~1:10pm, Sergei at ~3:15pm EDT.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).
 
Progress 44P Update:     Soyuz TMA-21/26S will not depart on 9/8; NASA &amp; Roskosmos are continuing to discuss options for 26S return and Soyuz 28S launch; currently, there is no baseline plan yet.  The 44P impact site in southern Siberia (Altai Region) is in a very wooded and mountainous area.  It appears to be spread over a large area, with “many tiny pieces” scattered about.  With current capability, all consumables on board ISS are good into 2012, even with a six-person crew.  Soyuz spacecraft stay time is limited to 210 days, and a 210 day crew stay is acceptable from both the NASA Crew Office and NASA medical perspectives.
 
Robotics Update:   SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) activities are continuing nominally, all conducted remotely from the ground.  Yesterday’s task for SPDM, opening the CTC (Cargo Transport Container) on the EOTP (Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform) and grasping the spare RPCM (Remote Power Controller Module), was completed successfully - with one motor stall which was resolved quickly.  Today, the new RPCM will be removed from the CTC, the old P1-1A-A RPCM will be uninstalled, the new RPCM will be installed in the P1 truss instead, and the failed RPCM will be stowed in the CTC.  Tomorrow is planned as a contingency day to complete the R&amp;R activities, followed by an MT (Mobile Transporter) translation.  Thursday (9/1) and Friday (9/2) will feature activities to stow the CTC and RRM (Robotics Refueling Mission) on the ELC4 (EXPRESS Logistics Carrier 4).
 
Conjunction Alert:   Flight Controllers received a late notification of a possible conjunction of ISS with space debris (Object-81006, unknown) tomorrow afternoon, 8/30, at a TCA (Time of Closest Approach) of 4:02:56pm EDT.  Radial miss: 0.18 km, Down Track Miss: -13.9 km, Cross Track Miss: 1.6 km.  Due to the short notice, work is underway for a possible DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver), using the SM engines.


No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

