
ISS Reboost: This morning, an ISS reboost was performed using 63P R&D thrusters. This reboost was to set up for 46S landing.
Biological Rhythms 48 Holter Start: The crew began the operations phase of the Biological Rhythms experiment by attaching the Digital Walk Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) and electrodes and initiating the first of two 24-hour measurements. The objective of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Biological Rhythms 48 is to study the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Mouse Epigenetics Transfer and Reconfiguration Operations: Crewmembers detached the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Incubator Unit (IU) Micro-G and 1G and transferred mice from Mouse Habitat Cage Unit to Transportation Cage Unit. The crew also reconfigured the CBEF video cables for the Image Processing Unit (IPU) and the Video Compression and Recording Unit 2 (VRU2).
NanoRack Module 9: The crew completed the last of the 5 NanoRack Module 9 experiment sessions by activating, deactivating, and shaking the mixture tubes to facilitate the experiment. Module-9 is a collection of student research projects utilizing the NanoRacks Mixsticks. Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of several science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the ISS.
Plant Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Regulation Preparation: To prepare for the Plant RNA Regulation investigation run that begins next month, the experiment containers on the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Rotors A and B were replaced with new experiment containers. Plant RNA Regulation studies the first steps of gene expression involved in development of roots and shoots. Scientists expect to find new molecules that play a role in how plants adapt and respond to the microgravity environment of space, providing new insight into growing plants for food and oxygen supplies on long-duration missions. 
Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN)1: Last week MERLIN 1 was automatically safed after a false Payload Potential Fire warning annunciated due to out of limit temperature sensors. Today MERLIN 1 was repowered for troubleshooting. The temperature sensors are now in the expected range and will be monitored for 24 hours. Assuming no anomalous signatures during the monitoring period, the unit will be configured to an operational state tomorrow. 
Dragon Packing:

Polars 2 & 4 ISS to Dragon Transfer: The crew uninstalled and transferred Polars 2 and 4 from the EXPRESS Rack and install into Dragon.
Payload Card Multilab Card Cube Removal: The crew removed the Multilab card(s) from the Payload Card Multilab facility for return.
Lithium HydrOxide (LiOH) R&R:  The crew replaced LiOH bags on Dragon in preparation for life support operations after ISS departure.

Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the Trailing Thermal Control Radiator (TTCR) EVA planned for September 1, the CDR and FE-6 completed a procedures review. Following the review, the crew participated in a conference with ground teams. 

