
SpaceX (SpX)-23 Docking:  Following yesterday’s successful launch, Dragon was captured today at 09:31 AM CT and docked successfully to Node 2 Forward at 09:44 AM CT. Prior to docking, the crew gathered and set up necessary tools required for monitoring vehicle approach. After the vehicle docked, the crew completed Dragon International Docking Adapter (IDA) Vestibule pressurization and leak checks, opened Node 2 Forward Hatch, Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)2 Androgynous Peripheral Assembly (APAS) hatch, and ingressed the vehicle.
Payloads:
Bioanalyzer: The crew connected the Bio-Analyzer to EXPRESS Rack 3 and powered on the Bio-Analyzer in preparation for Bio-Analyzer update to flight software v6.1.  Following a successful checkout of the updated software, the unit was powered off. Bio-Analyzer is a Canadian Space Agency (CSA) onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the International Space Station (ISS). The instrument performs on-orbit quantification of biological molecules and cellular composition in samples collected and prepared aboard the ISS.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew performed the steps necessary to replace a suspect CPU card within the CAL hardware.  CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments/Cool Flames Investigation with Gasses (CIR/ACME/CFI-G part 2): A crewmember exchanged a used 100% propane bottle with a new bottle of the same composition.  Cool diffusion flames were discovered during droplet combustion experiments aboard the ISS in 2012, and this initiated a rapidly growing field of combustion research.  A cool flame is one that burns at about 600 degrees Celsius.  A typical candle is about two times hotter, burning at around 1,400 degrees Celsius.  Most internal combustion engines are designed using computer models that neglect cool flame chemistry, but ignition and flame propagation in engines depend on cool flame chemistry. Cool flame chemistry also has a significant impact on fuel octane and cetane numbers, whose understanding has large economic consequences.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The crew installed the Gas Trap Module and JEM WRS Bypass Line in the JWRS system.  JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past, on manned spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Systems:
Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew began cargo transfer operations by unloading cargo from Cargo Dragon. The crew also collected air samples from Cargo Dragon using the AK-1M sample collector.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.

