
Payloads:
Advanced Nano Step: Following the completion of the experiment session, the Advanced Nano Step specimen cell was removed from its cartridge and Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF), and prepared for return to the ground on Crew-4. The Advanced Nano Step experiment monitors and records how the incorporation of specific impurity molecules affect the development and quality of protein crystals as they grow in a quartz cell aboard the ISS. The crystals grown on the ISS are returned to Earth and characterized using synchrotron X-ray diffraction. The protein crystal and impurity interactions are managed and monitored jointly by both scientists on the ground and the ISS crew.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew gained access to the experiment volume, gathered any loose samples, and then exchanged sample holder 2 in the sample cartridge. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew performed an ESA Nutritional Assessment (ENA) in support of the NutrISS investigation. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging): The crew gathered urine samples and prepared for blood sampling in support of the 4th Phospho-aging session.  Phospho-aging examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified CalciProtein Particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub: The crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on EMU 3004. EMU loop scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Node 1 Hatch Seal Cleaning: Today, the crew cleaned the excessive Braycote on the Node 1 hatch seal seen in a previous activity. The Braycote cleaning will prevent FOD which could cause hatch seal damage when the hatch is closed.

