
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K): The crew performed a familiarization session for the ARED-K experiment. Resistive exercise is used as a countermeasure to musculoskeletal deconditioning in microgravity and currently ISS crews perform resistive exercise using ARED. However, a major unknown is the internal bone and muscle forces developed during exercise in microgravity. In addition, squat and deadlift resistance exercise loads used in flight have to be increased to account for the loss of body weight in microgravity and it is unknown how the level of body weight replacement (BWR) affects bone and muscle loads. The ARED Kinematics investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the space station.
Astrobee: A series of successful checkouts and calibrations were performed for the recently refurbished Honey Astrobee free flier. Astrobee consists of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, can perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Circadian Light: The Big Picture words were reviewed, and the experiment light panel was installed in one of the crew quarters. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, compared to current lighting aboard the ISS, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
ElectroMagnetic Levitator (EML) – The crew gained access to the EML experiment facility and changed the high-speed camera mode from RECAL to STD. EML is a multi-user facility that provides containerless melting and solidification of electrically conductive, spherical samples, under ultra-high vacuum and/or high purity gas environments. Heating and positioning of the sample are achieved by electromagnetic fields generated by a coil system. The EML supports research in the field of meta-stable states and phases as well as in the field of measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys in the stable and undercooled state.
Plant Habitat-03B: The crew gained access to the Plant Habitat facility and added water to support the growing Arabidopsis plants. This is a routine activity which is performed as needed. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Rhodium Biomanufacturing-02: Science activities were performed for sample set one. Efficient and Resilient Biomanufacturing in Variable Gravity – Mission 2 (Rhodium Biomanufacturing 02) continues work to examine how microgravity affects biomanufacturing of therapeutics and nutraceuticals from bacteria and yeast. Microgravity is known to cause changes in cell growth and morphology and metabolic activity in microbes, which can affect biomanufacturing performance. Results could advance concepts of in-orbit servicing, assembly, and biomanufacturing of materials in space for use on future missions.
Zero T2: An Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session was performed on the ARED. Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating, or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
ISS Crew Handover and Adaptation: The experienced Endeavour Crew and 69S Crew continued the handover with the newly arrived Endurance Crew to transfer knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. The newly arrived crewmembers executed activities while the experienced crewmembers provided oversight and assistance.
Crew-6 Endeavour Departure Preparations: The Endeavour crew was allotted time to prepare for their departure. During this time, the crew prepared personal items for return and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks. Crew-6 participated in a departure conference which is intended to give the crew an overview of the departure timeline and review actions in the sequence that could cause timeline delays. Crew-7 participated in a docking debrief to address any items or concerns prior to Crew-6 return. Crew-6 undocking is currently scheduled for Saturday with splashdown on Sunday.
Russian ЕДВs Inspection and Handover: The crew inspected a standalone ЕДВ for any signs of a leak, air intrusion, or off-nominal Pre-Treat Urine (PTU) quality. Russian ЕДВs are used as storage containers for water and urine. Fluid can have varying amounts of solids/particulates present, indicating bio-growth, as well as larger amounts of gas bubbles present. One of the newly arrived Endurance crewmembers assisted the experienced Endeavor crewmember during the inspection as part of handover.
