
Ocular Health Ultrasound Eye Imaging:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg and FE-5 Parmitano performed their Flight Day (FD) 90 session of the Ocular ultrasound experiment.  The data gathered in these sessions will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD), optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The assisting crewmember, along with guidance from ground specialist, will position the ultrasound probe with water over the closed eyelid to collect the ultrasound images.
Ocular Health Cardiac Operations:   Nyberg and Parmitano also performed their FD 90 session of Ocular Health Cardiac.  The data gathered is physiological data to characterize the risk and define the visual and central nervous system changes observed during a six month exposure to microgravity. Vascular compliance will be calculated by dividing a subjects stroke volume derived from echocardiographic measurement, by their pulse pressure, the difference between systolic and diastolic blood pressure measured at the brachial artery.
Microbiome Body Sampling: Parmitano and Nyberg performed their FD90 session of the Microbiome investigation.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the ISS, periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken. As part of this study, the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments, and the related human health risk, will be assessed.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Exposed Pallet (EP) Operations: Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and through coordinated efforts with their JAXA counterparts handed off the External Pallet (EP) from the Japanese Experimental Module Remote Manipulator System (JEM RMS) to the SSRMS.  The ground then maneuvered the EP to H­‑II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-4 where crew members FE-3 Cassidy and FE-5 Parmitano inserted the pallet.  Once the crew activities were complete, the Robotic Ground Controllers released the EP and grappled HTV-4 in prep for uninstall and release next week.  MSS performance was nominal.

