
Spinal Ultrasound Scan Operations:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg with FE-5 Parmitano’s assistance, performed her second of three Spinal Ultrasound Scan sessions for her stay onboard the ISS.  This investigation aims to characterize microgravity-associated spinal alterations during and after spaceflight using in-flight ultrasound. Results from this research will provide data to enhance crew health for long duration space missions
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT) C1 Partial Setup in Japanese Experiment Module (JEM):  FE-3 Cassidy set up the BCAT-C1 Slow Growth Sample Module, checked the configuration of the D2Xs Camera and SB-800 Flash Unit. He then homogenized the cuvette sample and took photographs after mixing in preparation for BCAT-C1 operations in the JEM.  The BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions have a unique property which makes the particles phase separate then self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light. Photographing these samples in microgravity allows the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study allows the development of new insights into this important material process.
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review:  FE-4 Yurichikhin, Parmitano and Nyberg conducted a review of general emergency response instructions and assessed roles and responsibilities in the event of an onboard emergency.
Soyuz Onboard Training (OBT): Commander (CDR) Vinogradov, FE-2 Misurkin, and FE-3 Cassidy took part in a Soyuz OBT in preparation for their return next Tuesday, 10 September (CDT). The training covered a review of preliminary undocking and descent data as well as a walkthrough of the descent timeline (from Soyuz activation through post-landing activities) using the Neptune-ME control panel.
Photo TV (P/TV) HTV Re-entry Photo Camera Setup:  Cassidy configured 3 Nikon D3s cameras and set them up in the Cupola for photography of HTV 4 re-entry planned for Saturday, 07 September.
DIAPASON: Parmitano setup the Diapason instrument in the Lab for a test run.  The experiment studies nano-particles migration and capture achieved by very small thermal gradients. The particles range from 2 nm to 1 micron. This range allows the monitoring of combustion-generated pollution, the analysis of hostile environments, and the identification of atmospheric contaminants on-board ISS.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Ops: Overnight, Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the SSRMS to the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) High Hover position which will be the start position for the ISS Crew’s offset grapple practice session on Monday September 09, 2013.  The team also uplinked MSS Orbital-Demonstration 1 (Orb-D1) configuration files to the ISS.  MSS performance today was nominal.

