
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployers:  Overnight, ground teams attempted deployment of three undeployed launchers (#4, 7, 8) without success. Additional deploy attempts are being planned this evening.
Sprint Evaluation of Maximal Oxygen Uptake and Submaximal Estimates of VO2max Before, During, and After Long Duration International Space Station Missions (VO2Max): Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman set up the Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) hardware and conducted a VO2Max data collection session while exercising on the Cycle-Ergometer Vibration Isolation System (CEVIS). VO2Max documents changes in maximum oxygen uptake for crewmembers on board the ISS during long-duration missions. 
Energy: FE-6 Gerst started Energy Day 1 today. Gerst collected urnine samples, ate a special diet, and performed four sessions of metabolic measurements using the Pulmonary Function System (PFS). FE-5 Wiseman also collected urine samples as the control subject. Energy measures change in energy balance in crewmembers following long term space flight. Energy also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge of energy requirements is of a great importance to ensure health, good performance and the overall success of a mission, and also contributes to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight.
Autonomous Mission Operations (AMO) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA): Commander (CDR) Swanson completed an AMO-TOCA analysis, using new AMO software. AMO-TOCA will test advanced software and spacecraft systems with less involvement from the operational concepts to determine how crewmembers on the ISS can manage ground support staff.
X2R13 Guidance, Navigation and Control (GNC) R11 Software Load:  Operations continued in support of the X2R13 software migration. Ground controllers loaded newly delivered GNC software (GNC R11) onto both of the GNC Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDM). As part of this activity, a planned GNC MDM transition was performed, during which time ISS Attitude Control was temporarily handed over to RS thrusters.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Inspection:  Wiseman performed an inspection of ARED Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) Rail and dashpots. These periodic inspections ensure the continued safe operation of ARED.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection:  Swanson obtained water samples from the USOS and SM water dispensers in order to perform micro in-flight processing and Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis.  A subset of the samples from both dispensers will be returned to the ground via Soyuz 38S next week.

