ISS On-Orbit Status 09/03/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 At wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-6 Shannon Walker &amp; FE-4 Doug Wheelock completed Session 1/Day 6 of the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment, i.e., low-salt diet for Wheels, high-salt for Shannon.  Today’s activities involved taking measurements of body mass (BMM) with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device), final urine sampling after the 24-hr collections, and securing their blood samples in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Special diet intake &amp; logging was not required.        [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Wheels &amp; Shannon are ingesting special diet (for Wheels: Session 1 – Low salt diet; Session 2 – High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level; for Shannon: first High salt, then Low salt).  SOLO Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA Consumable Kit in the MELFI along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 &amp; 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged &amp; inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections are performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
 CDR Skvortsov took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending an hour on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.  MO-3 was performed yesterday by FE-3 Kornienko.     [The MO-3 fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].
 
 FE-5 Yurchikhin continued the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today performing a 2.5-hr inspection &amp; cleaning session of Group A ventilator fans and grilles in the SM (Service Module).
 
 After removing all cables of the EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to allow tilting of ER3 (EXPRESS Rack 3) away from the wall, and setting up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) for activity monitoring by the ground, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson accessed the WOOV8 (Water On-Off Valve 8) and worked on it to free the movement of the stuck valve.      [Access required the temporary removal of the G1 camcorder &amp; Shure microphone installed in the COL port cone/aft.  Afterwards, ER3 was rotated back, connected to its cabling (umbilicals for GN2 supply, vacuum exhaust) and the EMCS cables were re-connected.]
 \
 FE-6 Walker had 3.5 hrs reserved for the periodic inspection &amp; audit of PEPS (Portable Emergency Provisions) on board, checking PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers, PBAs (Portable Breathing Apparatus), EHTKs (Extension Hose Tee Kits) and QDMA (Quick-Don Mask Assembly) harnesses.     [There are 2 PFEs, 1 PBA, 1 QDMA, 1 EHTK in Node-1, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs 2 EHTKs in Node-2, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs, 1 EHTK in Node-3, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in A/L, 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs, 1 EHTK in the Lab, 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in JPM, 1 PFE in JLP, and 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in COL.  Downlink from Shannon: ” Audit complete.  No issues.  All as expected.  All S/N's verified and correct.”]
 
 Other activities by Shannon Walker included –
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>Performing one more data collection session on the CubeLab module and transferring the data to laptop.  This was the last for her; the next collection will not occur before the HTV-2 stage (period).    [CubeLab is a low-cost 1-kg platform for educational projects.  It is a multipurpose research facility that interfaces small standard modules into the ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  The modules can be used within the pressurized space station environment in orbit, with a nominal length, width, and height of 100 mm and a mass of no more than 1 g.  Up to 16 CubeLab modules can be inserted into a CubeLab insert inside an ER],</li><li>Clearing out food items from the US Lab S1 location to make room in preparation for the planned ARS (Atmosphere Revitalization Systems) Rack swap between Lab and Node-3, and</li><li>Spending time in the US Airlock to inspect all three BRTs (Bode Restraint Tethers) for looseness of their base mount screws.</li></ul> 
 Time again for Alex Skvortsov &amp; Fyodor Yurchikhin for recharging the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones located in Soyuz TMA-18/22S (at MRM2) &amp; Soyuz TMA-19/23S (docked at MRM1), a monthly routine job and Fyodor’s 3<sup>rd</sup>, Sasha’s 5<sup>th</sup>.      [After retrieving the phones from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (BO), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the BO’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry &amp; landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]
 
 Skvortsov &amp; Kornienko reviewed the uplinked list of equipment to be returned or jettisoned on Soyuz 22S on 9/24, noting current location &amp; quantity of each item, including KTO solid waste containers, and the specific stowage locations &amp; means of securing of the equipment &amp; containers in the Soyuz SA Descent Module.
 
 Meanwhile, Yurchikhin conducted an extensive usage audit of the SUBA SD1-7 and SSD305 lighting fixtures in the RS including portables, for the purpose of assessing the power balance in the RS.     [Going by an uplinked listing of 52 lights fixtures in SM, FGB, DC1, MRM1 &amp; MRM2, Fyodor checked the normal duration of each light being on over the 24-hr period.  The resulting data file was downlinked to TsUP-Moscow via OCA.]
 
 FE-4 Wheelock supported Part 3 (final) of the ongoing ground-commanded hyperextension tests on the FIR/ARIS (Fluid Integrated Rack / Active Rack Isolation System) pushrod/actuators.  Calibration tests will be performed within the next weeks.      [Steps included standing by for each ground-commanded “hyperextension” test on the ARIS actuators, then re-adjusting the snubbers after each test.  For this, Doug had to remove the FIR alignment guides in the morning and reinstall them at the end of each test or day to minimize the risk of damage to the ARIS hardware, but allowing microgravity during the tests themselves.    Background:  Designed to attenuate external vibration disturbances of payload racks, ARIS is quite different from traditional shock absorbers by working with active feedback control.  This is done with accelerometers to measure vibration disturbances, an electronic unit to process the data, eight actuators with pushrods for applying compensatory (counteracting) forces against the framework of the station in response to signals from the electronic unit that are calculated to "counteract" the disturbances measured by the accelerometers, and microgravity rack barriers (“snubbers”) that prevent accidental disturbance of the active ARIS rack.  Before regular operation, ARIS is checked out and calibrated in order to fine-tune the multiple-component system.  The standard ground-commanded hyperextension test cycles the eight pushrod/actuators through their full range of motion until the rack motion is stopped by the snubbers, to verify that its motion does not over-extend.  This may require adjustment of the snubbers.] 
 
 Wheels also downloaded and saved the ECG (Electrocardiograph) data recorded for the last 24 hrs from his 2<sup>nd</sup> session, started yesterday, with the JAXA biomedical experiment BIORHYTHMS (Biological Rhythms) and its body-worn digital Walk Holter ECG.
 
 Mikhail Kornienko collected the periodic water sample from the Russian SVO-ZV water supply in an EDV-U container in a drinking bag for return to Earth on 22S.
 
 Afterwards, Kornienko used the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, to perform the monthly standard check on the SM (Service Module) cabin air, today looking for Carbon Monoxide, Acetic Acid and Nitrous Gases.     [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C<sub>8</sub>H<sub>10</sub>), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur dioxide, Hydrogen Cyanide, Phosgene, etc.],
 
 In the SM, Misha completed the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s sediment trap insert (VU).    [The Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water.]
 
 Wheelock set up the demo equipment for another session of the experiment series called “Kids in Micro-G”.  Assisted by Tracy with video camcorder &amp; photo documentation, Wheels then conducted the student experiment, today showing “Liquids in Microgravity” procedures.      [The “Kids in Micro-G” suite of experiments was developed and written by 6<sup>th</sup> grade students to demonstrate Newton’s Laws of Motion both on ISS and in the classroom.]
 
 Fyodor did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Alex completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 At ~4:35am EDT, the entire crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 At ~7:20am, Sasha, Misha &amp; Fyodor linked up with TsUP stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
 At ~7:55am, Caldwell-Dyson had her regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
 At ~3:40pm, the crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
 At ~5:05pm, Shannon will have her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-4, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but is regularly being done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (24-0007J) lists 122 CWCs (2,836.2 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (25 CWCs with 1,042.2 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. /12.7 L in 17 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 44.0 L in 1 bag still requiring sample analysis, 128.3 L in 3 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (5 CWCs with 215.4 L, of which 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis, 1 bag with 42.5 L are to be used with microbial filter &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use;  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,550.1 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (6.3 L, in 1 bag with 6.3 L to be used only for OGA, plus 5 empty bags; and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (22.2 L, in 1 CWC with 20.2 L from hose/pump flush &amp; 1 bag with 2.00 L from EMU dump).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Hanoi, Vietnam (looking to the left of track for the capital city of Vietnam.  Overlapping frames of the metropolitan area were requested), Gaborone, Botswana (ISS had a near-nadir viewing pass over the city of Gaborone.  Gaborone is the largest city and capital of Botswana, and is situated on the Notwane River in the southeastern corner of the country.  Overlapping frames of the urban area were requested), Harare, Zimbabwe (looking to the left of track for the capital city of Zimbabwe.  Harare is also the largest city of the country.  Overlapping frames of the urban area were requested), Indus River Flooding, Pakistan (Dynamic Event.  Orbit track passed over the Indus River Valley.  Flooding in the area has been catastrophic.  Overlapping mapping frames taken along the river course as ISS traversed the valley from SW to NE will be useful for assessing the aftermath of the flooding.  Scattered clouds were likely present over some parts of the river valley), and Castries, St. Lucia (weather was predicted to be mostly clear over the capital city of St. Lucia in the West Indies.  The city is located on the northwestern coastline of the island, and has a well-defined street grid pattern.  Overlapping frames of the urban area and surroundings were requested).
 
 
