ISS On-Orbit Status 09/01/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
As part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel.
 
Also during Daily Morning Inspection, FE-4 Volkov conducted the routine checkup of the circuit breakers &amp; fuses in the DC1 Docking Compartment.      [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 &amp; MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &amp; BPP-36.  MRM2 &amp; MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.]
 
At wake-up, CDR Borisenko terminated his 6<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
Afterwards, Andrey took his 5<sup>th</sup> MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) test, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity.  The associated PZEh-MO-8 body mass measurement using the IM device was performed on 8/30.      [Supported by the RSS-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with Andrey’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.]
 
FE-1 Samokutyayev also completed the MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) test, his 5<sup>th</sup> session, with MO-8 body mass measurement performed on 8/30.
 
FE-3 Garan began the periodic HRF (Human Research Facility) generic 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Later in the day, Ron set up the equipment for the associated blood collection, scheduled tomorrow with Mike Fossum’s assistance.      [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
Working in the USOS (US Segment), FE-5 Furukawa gathered the LEGO equipment &amp; guide book and then performed the JAXA EPO (Education Program Operation) experiment “LEGO Brick Building”, while Ron Garan used the HD video camcorder to record the activity for downlink to SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center)/Tsukuba.  This completed the LEGO video activity started on 8/5.
 
Mike Fossum &amp; Satoshi Furukawa joined forces to conduct the first onboard tests of Robonaut but had to postpone completion of the program.      [After configuring the Node-2 camcorder to capture activities, setting up the Robonaut hardware on its seat track in the Lab (loc. P2) and powering on Robonaut in conjunction with ground commanding from POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center), the crew was to conduct about ~2 hrs of powered operations for checking out two sensors (JR3 &amp; Joint Torque), the Motion Stop button, both arms (with adjustment damping), and Robonaut vision via its left &amp; right camera.  However, after the sensor checkout, a technical issue with the GUI (Graphic User Interface) prevented completion of the program within the allotted “thermal clock” time of ~2.2 hrs (to limit touch temperature).  The checkout of “FE-7” Robonaut was postponed to a later date.  The hardware was decabled, disassembled and restowed.  Robonaut: “I’ll be back.”]
 
In the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Furukawa rebooted the SLT (System Laptop Terminal), set up the G1 HD camcorder and turned on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) for downlinking imagery of his subsequent activities on the MSPR (Multipurpose Small Payload Rack).
 
Continuing the disconnecting &amp; reconfiguring work on the MSPR started on 8/29, Satoshi today opened the MSPR work volume door, checked out the power supply line and then installed the MSPR laptop.     [On 8/19, after power cables were connected to the MSPR DCU, ground inspection of downlinked documentary photographs indicated that one of the cables was not fully connected.  This also raised concern that the other cables might not be fully connected, which would inversely affect the output current from the MSPR DCU to subcomponents, possibly rendering them nonfunctional.  MSPR power checkout was therefore aborted.  The 8/29 activity was to verify the cable connections.] 
 
Borisenko &amp; Samokutyayev completed their 2<sup>nd</sup> preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test run with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for their return to gravity on 9/16 with Soyuz 26S (along with Ron Garan), conducting the ODNT exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.  Andrey acted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer for Alex as Subject, and Sergei Volkov later took over the Operator role for Andrey as Subject.   Sasha was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 6:14am, Andrey at 7:47am EDT.        [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmember’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  The preparatory training consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -30, and -35 mmHg for five min. each while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure and the REG ShKO Rheoencephalogram Biomed Cap, supported by the Gamma-1M biomed data control system.   The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
FE-4 Volkov performed the daily inspection of the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse and verified proper watering of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules.        [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP)],
 
After checking out proper MKSD Control &amp; Data Acquisition Module communications between the BSPN Payload Server and the RSS1 laptop, Sergey copied science &amp; service data, accumulated from the GFI-17 Molniya-GAMMA experiment mounted externally since the Russian EVA-28, over to RSS1 and prepared them for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.]
 
Mike Fossum conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.       [The current card (28-0014K) lists 136 good CWCs (3,139.0 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (32 CWCs with 1,306.2 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 872.3 L in 21 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 390.8 L in 9 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. Iodinated water (92 CWCs with 1,664.9 L (also 15 expired bags with 271.9 L);  4. condensate water (130.9 L in 8 bags, plus 2 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (37.0 L in 2 CWCs, incl. 20.2 L from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
Afterwards, Mike gathered tools &amp; equipment required for tomorrow’s planned continuation of the major IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) on the APS (Automated Payload Switch) started on 8/30, to upgrade its two ORUs (Orbit Replaceable Units) as first step of installing the HRCS (High Rate Communications System).       [When completed, HRCS will have the new capability to connect to the Ku-band communications unit, be programmable via the Ethernet JSL (Joint Station Local Area Network), and – most importantly – allow for greatly increased payload data throughput.]
 
Borisenko executed the periodic data dump from the BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) control log to the RSS1 laptop for downlink to the ground via OCA.
 
The CDR also continued Part 2 of the test series of the Russian ASN-M Satellite Navigation System, which requires him to monitor communications between the RSK2 A31p laptop with the test program and the three active ASN NPM-1, NPM-3 &amp; NPM-4 navigation electronics modules every 2 hrs during work hours.       [The objective of the test is to confirm that array configurations for ATV docking in negative Solar Beta angles do not create unacceptable multipathing for the ASN RGPS (Relative Global Positioning System).  Both TRRJs (Thermal Radiator Rotary Joints) and both SARJs (Solar Alpha Rotary Joints) plus the 1B, 2B, 3A &amp; 4A BGAs (Beta Gimbal Assemblies) were placed in Directed position for this test (i.e., not autotrack).  The test will include 4 different array configurations, with periods of autotrack in between for power generation recovery.  The test is planned to be complete late Sunday evening.]
 
Later, Andrey –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Completed a 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3 photos with Nikkor 80-200 mm lens and the SONY HD video camcorder on oceanic color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Performed periodic service of the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), collecting eight Bubble dosimeters (A22, A24, A27, A28, A33, A34, A35, A36) to read their recorded radiation traces in a special Reader.  Afterwards, the dosimeters were initialized for new measurements and redeployed;  [the complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls], and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Conducted another data collection session for the psychological program MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”), accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was Borisenko’s 9<sup>th</sup> session with MBI-16;  [the software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]</li></ul> 
FE-1 Samokutyayev meanwhile –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo2">Completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM;  [regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator],</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo2">Did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo2">Searched for and audited Russian SGO personal sanitary-hygiene systems, such as KTO solid waste containers, toilet inserts, pretreat &amp; water dispenser, to get a fix on SGO items after the loss of Progress 44P, guided by an IMS listing of 46 items, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo2">Conducted the regular transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWCs (#1064 &amp; #1069) to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis.  After filling the designated KOV EDV container, it was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit;  [the 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.]</li></ul> 
Ron Garan retrieved a spare RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) from PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) stowage and then changed out the RFTA in the Node-3 WRS-2 (Water Recovery System) Rack 2, stowing the expended unit.       [RFTAs collect the substances cleaned from the pretreated urine by the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) as it turns it into water.  They need to be replaced when filled and constitute an important resupply item from the ground.]
 
Later, Garan uninstalled the 4 alignment guides from CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Lab S3 to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be activated before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.
 
FE-3 also cranked open the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, so ground images can be captured today by ground commanding.  At sleeptime tonight, Ron will close the shutters again.       [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
In the SM, Sergei Volkov spent about an hour on the TORU teleoperator control system, to check out the cabling and socket pins of the TORU trainer (Trenasher) by taking resistance measurements with the MMTs-01 Multimeter.  
 
After FE-6 Fossum broke out and set up the appropriate equipment, FE-5 Furukawa acted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) for Mike’s 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam.  They then “turned tables”, with Satoshi becoming the subject, his 2<sup>nd</sup> session, and Mike serving as operator/CMO.  FE-6 logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.      [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.]
 
Ron Garan had about an hour to work on the three MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) units, first verifying the situational configuration of MELFI-3 dewars &amp; reporting the results to POIC, then retrieving two special panels from PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) and installing them on MELFI-1 &amp; MELFI-1 to cover the empty EU (Electronic Unit) location to prevent any debris from floating inside the racks.
 
The three Russian ISS residents joined for filming another 35-min video session for Roskosmos TV Studio with the high-resolution Sony HVR-Z7E camcorder, to be used in a joint project with Carousel TV Channel for children ages 8 to 12 years, the “It’s Time to go to space!” program, which has a segment where Russian cosmonauts are discussing their work &amp;, answer viewers’ questions.  The footage was then downlinked to TsUP-Moscow.      [Andrey, Sasha &amp; Sergei answered children’s questions resulting from a recent competition for “the best question”.  Katya Kislitsyna from Magadan: “Do you keep animals or insects on the station?”  Bela &amp; Amina Kozhemovs from Nalchik:  “How do you trim your hair? Do they fly all over the station?”  Nastya Kazachkova from Moscow: “Is it true that the Great Wall of China is the only structure visible from space?”  Denis Redkov from Noginsk: “In the scenes from space we see cosmonauts floating around wearing socks all the time. Are these some special or just regular socks? Do you ever wear shoes there?”   Artyom Varanovich from Moscow: “Does Earth look different from space depending on the season?”  Lena Kotova from Moscow: “In summer, when hot, we have air conditioners and fans on Earth. Do you have fans on the ISS? Can they create a little breeze in weightlessness?”  Natasha Smirnova from Moscow: “Do you somehow wash your clothes over there or just throw it away?”  8. Nikita Solomatin: “They say that regular pens do not write in weightlessness. Do you write now using pencil? Or did you invent some special pen?”]
 
At ~10:40am EDT, Garan, Fossum &amp; Furukawa joined in the Kibo laboratory to support a PAO TV interview from South Dakota Public Broadcasting in Vermillion, SD, on “Dakota Midday” (Paul Guggenheimer).
 
At ~4:20pm, Ron &amp; Mike are scheduled for an audio/video teleconference with the Astronaut Office (Peggy Whitson).
 
Shortly before sleep time, Alex Samokutyayev will set up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his 5<sup>th</sup> experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR/2x, FE-1/2x, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6).
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Mbabane, Swaziland (this small capital city has a population of approximately 95,000 and lies in a wooded highland.  CEO staff has no images of this city in their database. Mapping pass, looking left of track), Yerevan, Armenia (looking nadir for this city that appears as a dark patch.  Uptrack visual cues are a wide valley of green agriculture.  Downtrack cues are a mountain mass and Lake Sevan.  Overlapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural area were requested.  Yerevan is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world, with a history that dates back to the 8th century BCE), Aral Sea (the dramatic retreat and desiccation of the Aral Sea has been documented in Astronaut photography for decades now.  Looking right of the orbit track and trying for contextual mapping with overlapping views of the individual remaining pools), Mt. Etna, Sicily (Dynamic Event:  Mount Etna has one of the world's longest documented records of historical volcanism, dating back to 1500 BC.  Etna has gone through a small eruptive phase these past two weeks.  On 8/19, a powerful explosion ejected incandescent bombs and produced a small ash plume.  During the evening small explosions occurred every 30 minutes.  Researchers are interested in any plume event, so the crew was to try to capture the source and extent of any plume), Serra da Cangalha Impact Crater, Brazil (ISS crew was able to capture this illusive target in the dissected highlands of northeastern Brazil earlier in their increment (GMT Day 175).  This crater, 12 km in diameter, in Brazil is a subtle feature on the landscape.  It is mainly defined by a circular drainage pattern surrounding the remnants of a central peak.  Using the recent agricultural patterns as cue, the crew was to try to locate the area of the target and shoot a detailed overlapping mapping strip to acquire views of the crater), Hurricane Katia (Dynamic Event:  Looking right of track for what is projected to be Category 2 Hurricane Katia at the time of this orbital pass.  Winds are projected to be 100 mph and movement should be WNW.  While appearing to be moving towards the Atlantic coast of the United States, it is expected that Katia will curve and eventually move towards the NW and not make landfall in the U.S.)
 
NOTE:  There are a few dynamic events going on and a few predicted to occur.  Two are included in today’s target list.  The others aren’t on the list because they either fall during your sleep period or we weren’t sure you would be able to see them.  Fires – Because of the extreme dry conditions in the U.S. southern plains and southwest, wildfires have been a real problem this summer.  CEO has already captured some of the major fires with its ISS imagery.  This last Tuesday (8/27), wildfires in Oklahoma and Texas burned homes in the Oklahoma City area and in the Possum Kingdom Lake region 75 miles west of Fort Worth.  These areas fall almost exactly between the ISS orbits for this planning day and ground personnel was not sure the smoke would be visible to the crew.  Hurricanes/Typhoons – Tropical Depression Nanmadol will have crossed into China by the time the crew read this target list.  Tropical Storm Talas is projected to become a Hurricane (Typhoon) briefly but will be a Tropical Storm by the time it hits the southern Japanese coast early Friday morning.  ISS orbit tracks cross over this storm during crew sleep.  Ground specialists are closely watching a disturbance in the Caribbean that is projected to be in the Gulf of Mexico in the next few days.  The models are very diverse at this point as to what it may or may not become, as well as to where it may go.  By tomorrow the models may be more definitive.
 

