
Microgravity Crystals: Over the weekend, the crew set up a microscope, then took images of the solutions and any crystals in the wells of the crystal plates as part of day six on-going experiment runs.  The Microgravity Crystals investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects. 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): The CBEF facility humidifier 2 was closed out and removed from the micro-G CBEF incubator unit. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The crew replaced the Manifold 4 fuel and Nitrogen bottles in preparation for upcoming s-Flames experiment runs. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity.
Space Moss: The crew removed the Space Moss observation dish and holder from the Microscope and configured the laptop for downlink of the temperature data to the ground. Environmental Response and Utilization of Mosses in Space (Space Moss) grows mosses aboard the space station, and on Earth, to determine how microgravity affects their growth, development, gene expression, photosynthetic activity, and other features. Tiny plants without roots, mosses need only a small area for growth, an advantage for their potential use in space and future bases on the Moon or Mars 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-8 Offset Grapple Training: The crew completed an offset grapple training session today. They performed several approaches with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to practice maneuvering over the grapple pin to simulate HTV capture. HTV-8 is scheduled to launch tomorrow, September 10th at 4:33 PM CT with capture planned for Saturday at 6:00 AM CT. 
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  In preparation for upcoming Battery R&R EVAs, the crew inspected rivets on multiple EVA Bags.  Loose rivets pose a hazard and could be a risk to hardware loss. Inspection and taping will prevent Foreign Object Debris (FOD) hazards and identify if bags no longer have enough rivets to be structurally sound. In addition, the crew initiated a charging session for the EMU Li-Ion Batteries (LLB), resized EMU 3004, and familiarized themselves with NASA Zero-Gravity Lever (NZGL) connectors. 

