
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-4 Departure:  This morning FE-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg finished closing out the Node 2 vestibule by demating all umbilicals to HTV-4. Meanwhile, FE-3 Cassidy depressurized the vestibule between HTV-4 and Node 2 in preparation for the unberth. Commands were then sent to the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) bolts to unlatch prior to unberth.  HTV-4 was then maneuvered to the release position via the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).  Nyberg, with Parmitano assisting released HTV-4 at 11:20 am CDT. HTV-4 is scheduled for destructive re-entry on Saturday, 07 September.
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) End Termination Install:   Parmitano installed a single ended terminator behind the FSL Video Management Unit (VMU) Digital Line Tape (DLT) Recorder to recover recording capability. The FSL VMU had lost its JPEG recording capability early during the Increment. Ground troubleshooting identified the VMU SCSI termination as a possible root cause and subsequently manifested a new terminator onboard 35S.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT) C1 Partial Setup in Japanese Experiment Module (JEM):  Cassidy verified the set up of BCAT-C1 hardware components in preparation for future BCAT-C1 operations in the JEM. His activity included setting up the BCAT-C1 Slow Growth Sample Module and checking the configuration of the D2Xs Camera and SB-800 Flash Unit.  The BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions have a unique property which makes the particles phase separate then self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light. Photographing these samples in microgravity allows the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study allows the development of new insights into this important material process.
Resist Tubule Charged coupled devices (CCD) Camera Setup:  Nyberg installed the microscope CCD camera and calibration chamber into the clean bench.  The camera installation and checkout was performed in preparation for Resist Tubule experiment scheduled to start in increment 37.  Resist Tubule is an investigation that uses the microgravity environment of ISS to examine the modifications in cellular components that are responsible for gravity resistance in plants.  The knowledge gathered during this investigation will enable efficient plant product in both space and on earth.

