
Energy: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst continued taking urine samples and eating a special diet over the weekend for the Energy investigation. FE-5 Wiseman also collected urine samples as the control subject. Today, Wiseman and Gerst continued with the Energy investigation. Energy measures change in energy balance in crewmembers following long term space flight. Energy also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge of energy requirements is of a great importance to ensure health, good performance and the overall success of a mission, and also contributes to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight.
Device for the study of Critical Liquids and Crystallization (DECLIC) Hard Drive Exchange: Commander (CDR) Swanson exchanged hard drives for the DECLIC investigation. After the hard drive swap the ground uploaded new scripts and rebooted the hardware, after which there was an error. The hardware was powered down while ground teams troubleshoot. The crew activities today and the errors seen were unrelated. DECLIC High Temperature Insert (HTI)-Reflight (R) studies water near its critical point, the point beyond which water loses its distinction between liquid and vapor and begins to behave as a dense gas. Salt tends to precipitate out from water at temperatures and pressures beyond its critical point. Understanding this behavior will assist designers in building extended-life and low-maintenance supercritical water oxidation (SCWO) reactors that will provide for more environmentally friendly waste management systems and reduce operating costs of power plants that use supercritical water for its working fluid.
Robonaut Mobility Upgrades: Swanson opened up Robonaut and reconnected a loose Cortex power jumper wire. After the wire was reconnected Swanson closed out Robonaut and the ground team was able to power up for intermediary checkouts. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Sprint Ultrasound: With the help of Wiseman, Swanson took Sprint ultrasound data for his Return-7 ultrasound Sprint session. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are on FD 14, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and R-7 for mission duration of six months and are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
EVA Handover: Swanson conducted an EVA related handover with Gerst, and Wiseman.  As part of this activity, the crew reviewed the EVA Cuff Checklist, EVA preparation, post EVA activities, Crew procedures, and hand signals. Swanson is scheduled to return to earth Wednesday, September 10th onboard Soyuz 38S.
SpaceX-4 (SpX-4) Preparations: In preparation for SpX-4 arrival, Gerst and Wiseman performed Dragon Robot 1 On-Board Training (OBT) session. The purpose of this training is to complete two Capture Point hold runs which allows the crew to practice free drift timing, malfunctions, and nominal rate approaches. SpX-4 berthing is scheduled for September 20, 2014.
Crew Departure Preparation:  Swanson continued to pack up his personal items in preparation for his return to earth scheduled for September 10th.  The packed items will be returning to the ground via Soyuz 38S, SpX-4, and SpX-5.

