
Change of Command Ceremony:  The Change of Command Ceremony occurred at the end of the crew day today in preparation for return of the 38S Crew tomorrow.  ISS CDR Swanson, handed over to Expedition 41 CDR Suraev.  Undock tomorrow is scheduled at 6:01pm CDT with landing at 9:23pm CDT.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Slosh: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman successfully conducted a SPHERES Slosh test session. The SPHERES-Slosh investigation uses small robotic satellites to examine how liquids move around inside containers in microgravity. A water bottle’s contents slosh around differently in space than on Earth, but the physics of liquid motion in microgravity are not well understood, which affects computer simulations of liquid rocket fuel behavior. Middle school and high school students control the SPHERES to study how liquids behave inside containers in space, which increases the safety and efficiency of future rockets.
Cell Mechanosensing (CMS)-2 Microscope Set Up: FE-6 Gerst set up the fluorescence microscope on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) in preparation for CMS-2 that will be delivered on SpaceX-4. The microscope would typically be set up inside the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Work Volume, but currently the Aquatic Habitat is setup inside the MSPR for zebra fish that will be delivered on 40 Soyuz.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Bottle Replace: CDR Swanson removed and replace a manifold bottle inside the CIR. Currently, the CIR is configured for the FLEX-2 investigation. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP) Sample Initiation: Wiseman transferred images for the BCAT-KP investigation and set up another sample, homogenized it, and set up the camera intervalometer to initiate automated pictures. BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Dosimeter Removal: Gerst removed area Dosimeter #17 which was installed within the Japanese Experiment Logistics Module – Pressurized Section (JLP) Module. Dosimeters continuously monitor the radiation dose aboard the ISS. Radiation exposure can have significant biological effects on living organisms, and on the biological investigations being done on ISS.  Once removed, the Dosimeter will be packed and returned to earth by way of Soyuz 38S.
MAGVECTOR: Ground teams saw an error with MAGVECTOR today and think the issue could be due to a faulty sensor. The hardware was deactivated and the ground teams are investigating the issue. MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The set up will provide initial insights regarding the principal feasibility on board the ISS, future improvements and phenomenological trends and dependencies. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the Ram and Wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Audio Configuration: In preparation for his departure from ISS, Commander Swanson reconfigured Audio cables in Node 2 in order to have voice and tone annunciation capability inside the Deck CQ, which is assigned to Gerst. This activity is performed every time a change of USOS Lead is conducted.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Port CQ Cleaning: Swanson cleaned his CQ’s intake and exhaust ducts, fans and air flow sensors. Due to the large amounts of dust observed during prior CQ cleanings, the procedure had him remove all applicable panels and clean behind them.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Ground controllers performed a checkout of the SSRMS Latching End Effector (LEE) B snare cables and rigidize mechanisms.  The checkout of both LEE strings is a Launch Commit Criteria for SpaceX4.  Imagery was taken of the LEE to ensure no snare cables are protruding in the Dragon’s capture envelope. There were no off nominal conditions detected.  In addition, the motion satisfies a portion of the Mobile Servicing System 8.1 software checkout.
JEMRMS NanoRacks Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Maneuver:  Overnight, JAXA will maneuver the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to a position where inadvertent deployment of the remaining CubeSats are not a threat to 38S undock and return trajectory.

