
44 Soyuz (44S) Docking: 44S, carrying Aidyn Aimbetov, Andreas Mogensen and Sergey Volkov to the ISS, successfully docked this morning at 2:42 am CDT followed by leak checks and hatch opening, increasing the ISS crew complement to nine members. Padalka and Kelly conducted a safety briefing with the newly arrived 44S crew, covering potential hazards and available safety measures on the ISS.
 
Microbe IV: Yui collected air and surface samples in different locations of the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) using the Particle Counter and the Surface, Water and Air Biocharacterization Air Sampling Device (SWAB ASD). Additional samples using an adhesive sheet were collected and stored in MELFI for return on a future flight.  The Microbe IV experiment researches microbial dynamics in a crewed habitat in space which is vital to understand for safe and healthy long duration space habitation. Research on this relationship in a space habitation environments is critical for success in long-duration mission, in order to reduce potential hazards for the crew and the spacecraft infrastructure.
 
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack-2 (MSPR-2) Video Recording Unit (VRU) Checkout: Lindgren performed an end-to-end video communication between the ground and MSPR-2 and the function of MSPR VRU2 with the two primary ISS camcorders.
 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU) Removal: Following the completion of MHU checkout this week, Yui removed the MHU from the CBEF.  Additional hardware will arrive on future flights in advance of the first planned use of the MHU. Samples are scheduled for arrival on SpaceX-9.
HTV Cargo Transfer Status:  Yui completed about one hour of HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today. A total of 22.3 hours remain to complete HTV-5 cargo operations.
 
ESA Short Duration Mission
AQUAMEMBRANE: Lindgren performed a pre‐requisite activity with the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Waste Water Tank, by filling 3 bags with 300mL of waste water condensate. These bags are kept at ambient temperature until the AQUAMEMBRANE activities planned on 05‐September (GMT248).  The AQUAMEMBRANE experiment will help validate an Aquaporin Inside Membrane (AIM) as a replacement to the ISS multi‐filtration beds for water recovery by quantifying AIM efficiency to treat ISS condensate obtained from the ISS cabin atmosphere. This could lead to improved efficiency in ISS systems for reclaiming water for use as drinking water etc, which will help reduce upload mass of expendable media used in water processing.
 
SKINSUIT:  The first height measurement of Mogenson, with support of Kelly, was completed.  When astronauts are in space, they do not experience the effects of gravity and one result of this is that they do not have any body weight. We know that astronauts grow taller in space and we think the main reason for this is that, without the weight of their upper body pressing down on it, their spine ‘stretches’ – it becomes less curved and the discs that separate the bones of the spine fill with more fluid (fluid that is normally squeezed out by the weight of their upper body). This investigation will test a new piece of clothing called ‘SkinSuit’, which is designed to simulate the effect of body weight, to see if it can control this stretching.
 
ENDOTHELIAL CELLS: KUBIK FM5 was powered on from the ground. EC (Experiment Container) pouches were retrieved from 44S, and installation of the ECs was completed by Yui. Good temperature and centrifuge setpoints confirmed.  Human subjects and experimental animal models returning from space have shown muscle‐skeletal and cardiovascular problems accredited to injury of the endothelium: the system of cells lining the inner surface of all blood vessels. This project aims at understanding the reaction of cultured endothelial cells to spaceflight through cellular and genetic analysis.
 

