
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Troubleshooting: On Saturday, Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy and FE-6 Nyberg performed a removal and replacement (R&R) of EMU 3011 condensate water relief valve (item 134) and  associated filter.  Crew then performed an EMU screening test and discovered that the water crossover anomaly was still present.  They then proceeded with the gas trap (item 141) R&R.  The EMU screening was repeated following item 141 replacement with the same result.  Ground teams are now focusing their attention on the fan/pump/separator (item 123) with potential proximate causes being a partially blocked pitot tube or a displaced weld plug. The results from this weekend’s troubleshooting do not rule out a common cause failure mode.
Node 3 Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) On-orbit Replacement Units (ORU) 2 – Mass Spectrometer Failure:  Node 3 MCA ORU 2 Mass Spectrometer failed on Saturday.  A spare Mass Spectrometer unit was recently launched on H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-4 and ground specialists are currently working on a plan to recover from the failure.  Meanwhile, the Crew will be using a Portable Oxygen Monitor (POM) and Carbon Dioxide Monitor (CDM) to call down measurements twice per day as a precaution. In addition, the ground is monitoring telemetry from SM and Columbus constituent analyzers as a work around to the failure.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) On-Board Training (OBT) Departure Computer Based Training (CBT): Today, FE-5 Parmitano and Nyberg performed proficiency training covering the HTV departure profile, departure procedures, and the crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding HTV. The lesson walks through the steps in the departure procedures and provides representative Robotics Work Station (RWS) and Portable Computer System (PCS) screenshots for each step. In addition, the lesson provides an overview of the HTV commands available to the crew via the Hardware Command Panel (HCP). HTV unberth is scheduled for Wednesday, September 4, 2013.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Micro-G and 1G Wipe:  Cassidy cleaned the inside CBEF Incubator Unit (IU) Micro-G and 1G.  The Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility located in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack. The CBEF is used in various life science experiments, such as cultivating cells and plants in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).
Reentry Data Acquisition using I Ball Reentry Recorder (IBALL):  Cassidy installed three IBALL thermocouple-plates on the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV). The individual thermocouple plates were placed on the Resupply Rack (HRR), HTV Aft, and Port bulkheads.  He then powered up the I BALL Reentry Recorder, and started the timer and accelerometer calibration.  I BALL investigation consist of a spherical sensor assembly that acquires continuous position, acceleration, temperature, and imagery data during the HTV reentry phase. During and after HTV atmospheric reentry, I BALL automatically collects data and sends it to the ground for processing in order to more thoroughly understand the processes and characteristics regarding spacecraft reentry.
HTV Preparation for Hatch Closure:  Parmitano and Nyberg configured the Node 2 Vestibule in preparation for HTV-4 Unberth. Today’s activity included removal of the Inter-module Ventilation (IMV) Supply Jumper, two 1553 Data Jumpers, Two Power Jumpers, and Air Revitalization System (ARS) Jumper. The crew also installed an HTV Hatch Thermal Cover, Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Center Disk Cover, and four CBM Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs) onto an Active CBM bulkhead.  At the conclusion of today’s activity, the Node 2 Nadir Hatch was closed.

