ISS On-Orbit Status 09/08/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    &gt;&gt;&gt;Today 50 years ago (1960), Pres. Dwight D. Eisenhower formally dedicated the Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) at Huntsville, AL (activated by NASA on July 1).  Also today 44 years ago (1966), Gene Roddenberry’s first Star Trek series premiered on NBC.&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
 Progress M-07M/39P Launch Delay:  The launch of Progress 39P, planned for this morning at 7:11am EDT has been delayed until Friday, 9/10, due to high winds over the Baikonur launch site.  Launch time: 6:22am.  Docking is planned for 9/12 (Sunday) at ~7:57am.  This is a First for the ISS Program.
 
 At wake-up, CDR Alex Skvortsov conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Wheelock &amp; FE-6 Walker continued their week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 4<sup>th</sup> for Doug &amp; Shannon, 8<sup>th</sup> for Tracy, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Also at day’s begin, FE-5 Yurchikhin terminated his 6<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 Before sleeptime tonight, CDR Skvortsov will set up the MBI-12 Sonokard payload for himself, starting his 12<sup>th</sup> sleep experiment session.
 
 Before breakfast &amp; first exercise, Skvortsov, Kornienko &amp; Yurchikhin took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, Kornienko closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
 FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson completed her 2<sup>nd</sup> blood draw and processing for the Vascular Blood Collection protocol, then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS), after recording the blood tube bar codes.  FE-3 Kornienko assisted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).
 
 Wheelock &amp; Walker continued their second six-day SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) sessions, which entails a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings in two session blocks.  Wheelock is now on the High Salt diet, with daily diet log entries.  Today’s activities by Doug, besides diet logging, involved taking measurements of body mass (BMM) with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), collecting blood samples for centrifugation in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge), also taking urine samples and securing all samples in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).       [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Wheels &amp; Shannon are ingesting special diet (for Wheels: Session 1 – Low salt diet; Session 2 – High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level; for Shannon: first High salt, then Low salt).  SOLO Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 &amp; 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged &amp; inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections will be performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
 FE-6 Walker powered up the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment) equipment and then took about 1.5 hrs to run fluid tests with the ICF1 (Interior Corner Flow 1) hardware.  The experiment was recorded on Mini-DVCAM tapes and downlinked in real time, with the first 15 min to verify the camera's field of view and to ensure the Dry Surface Test was being recorded at MCC-Houston since this step was not repeatable.     [CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigate capillary flows and flows of fluids in containers with complex geometries.  CFE takes advantage of the station’s micro-G environment to investigate the special dynamics of capillary flow, i.e., the interaction of liquid with solid that can draw a fluid up a narrow tube and can be exploited to control fluid orientation so that fluid systems on spacecraft perform predictably.  Interest is in the critical wetting angles for various container geometries and determination of the hysteresis to a higher accuracy than before.  CFE results will have applications to management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  The last CFE session, the 20<sup>th</sup>, was conducted by Tracy Caldwell-Dyson on 7/13-7/18.   ICF is one of three CFE experiments, the others being Vane Gap (VG) and Contact Line (CL).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]
 
 In preparation for their return on Soyuz TMA-18/22S on 9/24, Skvortsov, Kornienko &amp; Caldwell-Dyson donned their Sokol flight suits and conducted the periodic 30-min. fit check of their Kazbek couches in the 22S spacecraft, i.e., the three contoured shock absorbing seats in the Descent Module.    [For the fit check, crewmembers remove their cabin apparel and don Sokol KV-2 suit and comm caps, get into in their seats and assess the degree of comfort and uniform body support provided by the seat liner.  Using a ruler, they then measure the gap between the top of the head and the top edge of the structure facing the head crown.  The results are reported to TsUP.  Kazbek-UM couches are designed to withstand g-loads during launch and orbital insertion as well as during reentry and brake-rocket-assisted landing.  Each seat has two positions: cocked (armed) and noncocked. In cocked position, they are raised to allow the shock absorbers to function during touchdown.  The fit check assures that the crewmembers, whose bodies gain in length during longer-term stay in zero-G, will still be adequately protected by the seat liners for their touchdown in Kazakhstan, either emergency or regular return.]
 
 Also for their return to Earth, Skvortsov &amp; Kornienko completed their first preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session with the Russian Chibis suit (tested yesterday) by conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill, each crewmember taking turns as Subject and CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Alex was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 5:59am, Mikhail at 7:34am EDT.     [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Romanenko’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.] 
 
 Later, CDR &amp; FE-3 spent time in the FGB to conduct an audit/inventory of stowed Rodnik water tank kits and their components.
 
 After configuring the Lab camcorder and the COL VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) to monitor activities, Doug Wheelock worked on the FIR (Fluid Integrated Rack), inserting a cleaning tape cartridge in the FSL VMU (Fluids Science Laboratory Video Management Unit) and later replaced it with a digital data tape for recording.      [For the ground-commanded operations, which required a microgravity environment, Wheels also removed (and later re-installed) the FIR/ARIS alignment guides.  During the operations, FE-4 monitored ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) position control stability and afterwards removed the data tape from the VMU tape recorder.]
 
 Also in COL, FE-4 worked on the BLB (Biolab), installing its microscope liquid cassette for ground-controlled testing.     [BLB is one of five payload racks inside COL.  The other four are EPM (European Physiology Module), FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory), EDR (European Drawer Rack) &amp; ETC (European Transport Carrier, which in orbit serves as a workbench and stowage facility).]
 
 Moving to the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Wheelock set up the pull-out CB OC (Clean Bench Operation Chamber) with its joystick, in preparation for a functional checkout on 9/9 and a checkout of its microscope on 9/15. 
 
 Fyodor Yurchikhin configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 3<sup>rd</sup>, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
 Afterwards, Fyodor spent several hours continuing the current round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems.    [In the DC1 Docking Compartment, FE-5 changed out the PF1 &amp; PF2 dust filter cartridges, cleaned the V1 &amp; V2 fan screens, the VD1 &amp; VD2 air ducts and the V3 fan screen.]
 
 For the GFI-8 “Uragan” protocol, Fyodor started charging the NIKON photo equipment and SONY VAIO laptop batteries for another upcoming session.
 
 After installing a fresh A31p battery pack in HRF PC1 (Human Resea4rch Facility Portable Computer 1) laptop, Shannon Walker downloaded the data from her recent (8/29, FD75) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory session, i.e., from two Actiwatches, two HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF cards and the Cardiopres data.
 
 Continuing her support of the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment) payload in the COL, FE-6 Walker activated the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and started up the next (14<sup>th</sup>) run of the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment).      [Steps included powering up the MLC (MSG Laptop Computer) and changing out the SAME sample in the carousel (with all 6 preloaded carousels processed, the individual samples on each carousel now need exchanging), the alcohol wick and the thermal precipitator, followed by opening vent &amp; GN<sub>2</sub> (gaseous nitrogen) valves for ground-controlled operation. The MSG tape is exchanged after every second carousel is processed.   After a ~9.5hr run, FE-6 performed the scheduled shutdown of the experiment.  SAME measures smoke properties, or particle size distribution, of typical particles from spacecraft fire smokes to provide data to support requirements for smoke detection in space and identify ways to improve smoke detectors on future spacecraft.  SAME is the successor to the CSD (Comparative Soot Diagnostics) experiment that flew aboard STS-75 in 1996.  That experiment showed that smoke produced in microgravity is different from smoke produced in normal gravity (micro-G smoke particles are larger).]
 
 Shannon also started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS ( Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.   [This was the 21<sup>st</sup> session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware].
 
 Working on the AR1 (Air Revitalization 1) rack in its new location in the US Lab at rack bay D6, Shannon cleaned the IMV (Intra-Module Ventilation) air inlets of the AAA (Avionics Air Assembly) to maximize airflow in AR1, using gray tape (which is supposed to prevent dust particles from flying away).
 
 For ground monitoring of the Progress rendezvous &amp; docking on Sunday, Caldwell-Dyson &amp; Skvortsov set up the Ku-band video “scheme” for a communications test of converting the RS video signal from the SONY HDV camera to U.S. NTSC format and Ku-band from FGB &amp; SM (Service Module), for downlinking “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.     [For the test, Tracy configured the SSC-1 (Station Support Computer 1) A31p laptop in the FGB and activated the VWS (Video Streaming Workstation) laptop for both the conversion and the “streaming” MPEG2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoding, with Alex running the video test from the RS.  The previously used ESA MPEG2 Encoder in the SM was not used, in favor of the more stable VWS.]
 
 FE-2 also did the periodic status check &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) payload in the Lab.
 
 Tracy &amp; Wheels worked a newly-added troubleshooting task on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser.    [The exercise device yesterday was reported to have its cable arms popping out of the detents, due to the pulley rope prevented from full retraction into the frame by some tuft (cluster of threads).  For the troubleshooting, the crewmembers were to cut the tuft off and remove the belt pulley cover to confirm the rope was still routed properly on the pulleys.] 
 
 Alexander meanwhile completed the periodic transfer of condensate water to an RS EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen &amp; (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container from a CWC (Contingency Water Container).  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.]
 
 Afterwards, the CDR had ~1.5 hrs set aside to perform the periodic Russian SPOPT Fire Detection &amp; Suppression System maintenance, today in the MRM1 Rassvet module, by carefully dismantling its IDZ-2 smoke detectors, cleaning their ionizing needles and then reinstalling the sensors.     [Part of the job is to inspect surrounding areas behind panels and to clean those surfaces with microbial growth wipes.]
 
 FE-3 Kornienko meanwhile completed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, DC1–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
 Kornienko then did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Later, Mikhail also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Afterwards, FE-3 Mikhail conducted the regular monthly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization).      [This requires inspecting the condition of harnesses, belt slats, corner bracket ropes, IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies) and gyroscope wire ropes for any damage or defects, lubricating as required plus recording time &amp; date values, and making sure that the display cable and skirt were properly secured afterwards.]
 
 Tracy set up and prepared the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, including MBS (Mixing Bag System), for her 7<sup>th</sup> session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max assessment, integrated with Thermolab, scheduled tomorrow.      [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
 Caldwell-Dyson also had an hour set aside for personal crew departure preparations, standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers.
 
 Additionally, Tracy spent ~30 min pre-packing US equipment for return on Soyuz 22S.
 
 At ~11:30am EDT, Doug Wheelock had his weekly PMC (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-4), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR/2x, FE-3/2x, FE-5), and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-4).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Mbabane, Swaziland (weather is predicted to be mostly clear over the capital city of Swaziland.  Looking to the left of track for the Mbabane urban area.  Overlapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural area were requested), Tashkent, Uzbekistan (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over Tashkent, the capital city of Uzbekistan.  Overlapping context views of the urban and surrounding rural area were requested), Beirut, Lebanon (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of Lebanon.  Beirut is located on the Mediterranean coastline at the tip of a small peninsula.  Overlapping frames of the urban area and surrounding region were requested), and Yerevan, Armenia (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the Yerevan, the capital city of Armenia.  Yerevan is one of the oldest continuously-inhabited cities in the world, with a history that dates back to the 8<sup>th</sup> century BC.  Overlapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural area were requested.
 
 
