
Airway Monitoring: Today the crew performed preparatory activities for the GMT 250 Airway Monitoring US Airlock Session. These activities include review of big picture words, hardware location, etc. The Airway Monitoring investigation aims to determine in detail the pulmonary nitric oxide turnover in weightlessness and in combined weightless, hypobaric and hypoxic environments as well as determining the lung diffusion capacity for nitric oxide. With dust particles present in the ISS atmosphere, this investigation studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This will help to identify health impacts and support maintenance of crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, such as to the Moon and Mars, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in identifying and avoiding such conditions.
Atomization: Today the crew successfully removed the used syringe and water trap from Atomization Operation Equipment (AOE). The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion. 
Electro-Magnetic Levitator (EML): Today the crew installed a new (next generation) High-Speed Camera Controller in EML which is located in the European Drawer Rack (EDR).  They also installed a new hard disc with more storage capacity. The activity was not fully completed, however, due to incompatible threads between the fasteners of the electrical connectors and the camera controller; the facility was placed in a good temporary configuration while ground teams considering the forward plan. The EML is a multi-user facility is designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of high-accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station (EXPRESS) rack 5: Today the crew successfully replaced the EXPRESS Rack 5 lower payload valve. This is the second EXPRESS Rack 5 valve that was replaced following indications of a leak from the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM); the first valve was replaced successfully on 23-August. Of note, a successful recovery of EXPRESS Rack 5 will allow installation of the Plant Habitat Science Carrier #2 and subsequent resumption of science in the facility.
Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2): Today the eight detectors were retrieved from the Russian crew and deployed in the JPM1D5 area. This Canadian Space Agency investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS. These bubble detectors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
SpaceTex-2 and Metabolic Space:  A crewmember donned Thermolab equipment, a heart rate monitor, and a SpaceTex material 3 shirt for ESA’s SpaceTex-2 investigation.  He also donned Metabolic Space equipment and completed an exercise session using the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  SpaceTex fabrics provide a higher rate of sweat evaporation and a corresponding higher evaporative heat loss compared to conventional cotton fabrics used by astronauts on the ISS.  Metabolic Space provides a technology demonstration for a measurement system worn by astronauts that supports cardio-pulmonary diagnosis during physical activities of astronauts living onboard the ISS, while maintaining unrestricted mobility. 
Service Module (SM) ISS Reboost: Tonight at 7:50 PM CT, the ISS will perform a 13-second reboost using the SM main engines. This reboost is the second in a series of three burns to set up proper phasing for 54S landing on October 4th and 56S launch on October 11th, which will use the 4-orbit rendezvous profile. ISS velocity will be increased by 0.20 meters per second (m/s) during tonight’s reboost.     
Environmental Health System (EHS) Microbial Air and Surface Sampling: Today the crew took surface and air samples for microbial analysis using the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) and Surface Sample Kit (SSK). Both samples will be placed into a Petri Dish and allowed to incubate approximately five days for future analysis. The EHS monitors the ISS environment for gaseous contaminants from off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants as well as microbial contaminants from crewmembers and ISS activities.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations: Last night, the Robotics Ground Controllers (ROBO) performed the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload/Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) checkouts on both string and diagnostics on only the prime string as required to meet H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 7 Launch Commit Criteria. Then, the ROBO performed a checkout of the SSRMS Force and Moment Sensor (FMS) for Wrist Roll compensation.  Finally, the SSRMS was maneuvered to the start position of the Columbus Survey, to be performed later today. The European Space Agency (ESA) has requested an optical impact survey of the outer surface of the Columbus module with emphasis on the forward-and zenith-facing areas. This status check will verify the status of the Columbus meteoroid and debris protection system (MDPS) and obtain information on the space debris and meteoroid environment of the ISS. MSS performance remains nominal.
Nacho Service Pack: Yesterday, ground specialists successfully reloaded various Space Station Computers (SSCs) with the Nacho Service Pack. Controllers will continue reloading additional SSCs during crew sleep tonight and are scheduled to complete installation of the Service Pack tomorrow during the workday. One of the many updates included in the Nacho Service Pack are crew accounts for the 56S and 57S crewmembers as well as an upgrade to Microsoft Office 2016.

