
Crew-6 Dragon Endeavour Undock and Landing:  Crew Dragon Endeavour undocked from the PMA-2 docking port on Node 2 Forward of the ISS on Sunday September 3rd at 6:05 AM CDT. Later that day, at 11:17 PM CDT, Crew Dragon Endeavour splashed down near Jacksonville off the coast of Florida returning NASA astronauts Steve Bowen and Woody Hoburg, UAE astronaut Sultan Al Neyadi, and Russian cosmonaut Andrey Fedyaev safely from the 184-day docked mission. This concludes the Crew-6 mission.
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device – Kinematics (ARED-K): ARED-K Hardware setup was completed and the first science collection for the ARED-K experiment was performed. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
Circadian Light: The Circadian Light science functions were checked out on the EveryWear ISS application located on the ISS iPads. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system that is designed to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The next MSL Low Gradient Furnace (LGF) sample cartridge was loaded into the MSL Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) and the Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductors-C5 (GTCS-C5) run was initiated. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse experiment modules. Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in this way to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): Overnight, the ground team preformed a Water Recovery and Management (WRM) Potable Bus leak check for xPWD. The hardware passed the leak check, allowing crew to continue activation and checkout activities. This morning the crew performed a system flush and collected and analyzed water samples from the xPWD. An on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the station. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Systems:
Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: As part of Station’s standard system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through ventilation inlets and outlets in throughout USOS modules. The crew took measurements in the US Airlock, Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM), Cupola, LAB, International Docking Adapter (IDA) Forward & Zenith, Node 1, 2, & 3, and Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL). The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that ideal atmospheric condition is maintained throughout ISS.
Large Gauge Pin Kit Audit: The crew completed an audit of the ISS pin kit for ground tracking and future logistics. Results of the audit will help ground to determine what replenishment is necessary for future maintenance.
