
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): Preparation for the Slice-7B replacement was continued. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Circadian Light: The Circadian Light start-of-next-day assessment was performed. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system that is designed to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
NanoRacks Airlock External Payload Environment Monitor (Gambit): Following the installation of Gambit onto NRAL external site “D” and NRAL berthing to Node 3 last week, today the crew performed steps to set up the NRAL vestibule for ingress. The Node 3 Port hatch was opened and the NRAL vestibule was reconfigured. The Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) was stowed, and the Pressure Management Device (PMD) was de-installed. Jumpers were connected to power NRAL through ISS, after which Space Station Remote manipulation System (SSRMS) ungrappled NRAL. Gambit evaluates and catalogs performance of the NRAL external sites. Gambit will be moved to all six external sites throughout the course of the investigation, and various sensors measure temperature, vibrations, and radiation to characterize each site. Results could support design and development of future science investigations that use these sites.
Immunity Assay: Sample were collected,processed, and placed into the Kubik for a 24-hour incubation. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) in-flight water from the xPWD bag sample was processed. An on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Systems:
ISS Crew Handover and Adaptation: Throughout the week, the experienced 69S Crew will take time to handover with the newly arrived Endurance Crew to transfer knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. The newly arrived crewmembers executed various activities while the experienced crewmembers provided oversight and assistance.
European Drawer Rack 2 (EDR2) Transfer Preparation: Today, the crew connected a USB Key to a SSC for files transfer in preparation for EDR2 transfer next week. Next week, the crew will transfer three Columbus (COL) racks as part of preparation for the Enhanced European Exploration Exercise Device (E4D). The E4D is a new crew exercise device that is designed for long-term exploration missions. Next Tuesday, the crew will transfer EDR2 from its temp stowed location at NOD2D2 to COL1A2, transfer Biolab rack from COL1A2 to COL1F3, and transfer Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) from COL1F3 to COL1D4.
EDV Inspections: Today, due to the recent discovery of improperly treated EDVs, the crew inspected Russian EDVs for any off-nominal indications, including signs of leaks, air intrusions, or off-nominal pre-treat qualities. EDVs are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The crew downlinked photos and videos for ground teams to review.
