
LAB Robotics Work Station (RWS) Loss of Communication (LOC):  Shortly after midnight Friday night the C&C Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) lost comm with the (primary) LAB RWS.  Ground teams performed troubleshooting over the weekend which resulted in 5 failed power cycles, however that was followed by 4 successful power cycles.  Preliminary analysis indicates a possible intermittent hardware issue with the Control Electronics Unit (CEU), or a less likely software timing issue. The LAB RWS is currently powered up and operating nominally as the active RWS.  Ground teams will continue to assess options for further troubleshooting and will be updating procedures in case a CEU R&R is required.  Launch Commit Criteria Flight Rules associated with Cygnus Orbital D-1 launch on 17 September require both Lab and Cupola RWSs.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fluids Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) Removal and Replacement (R&R): Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy performed an R&R of the FCPA today.  Ground teams have begun an extensive checkout of the new FCPA.  At this point the R&R appears to be successful, however ground teams will not know for sure until the next process cycle occurs within the next day. The On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) had failed last week due to a spike in high motor current. This R&R has used the last available FCPA spare onboard ISS. An additional FCPA is currently manifested for SpaceX-3.
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Offset Grapple #1:  Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and the ISS Crew (FE-6 Nyberg and FE-5 Parmitano) maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into and out of the grapple envelope of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF).  They repeated this six times and then maneuvered the SSRMS back to the PMM High Hover position.  This was the first of two SSRMS practice sessions to help prepare the ISS Crew for capturing the Orbital-Demonstration 1 (Orb-D1) on 22 September 2013.  After the completion of the grapple practice,  Nyberg set up the Node 3 camcorder to provide a view of Cupola Robotic Workstation (RWS) Monitor 1 for the Orb-D1 RWS Visiting Vehicle Overlays checkout.  The Robotics Ground Controllers then maneuvered the SSRMS to the first overlays checkout position.  The Capture Volume was verified by the Visiting Vehicle Officers at this position and a subsequent three positions of the SSRMS.   At the completion of the checkout the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS back to the PPM High Hover position. MSS performance today was nominal.
Device for the study of Critical Liquids and Crystallization (DECLIC) Hard drive Exchange:  Nyberg exchanged the DECLIC hard drive today.  The hard drive that was removed was placed within the DECLIC Electronics Locker (ELL). This activity is in preparation for the first session planned next increment. The investigation is important for the development of cooling systems for use in space as well as systems which may be useful in waste disposal and recycling on Earth.
Change of Command:  Today, off-going Commander (CDR) Vinogradov handed over ISS command responsibilities to CDR Yurchikhin.  The change of command is more than ceremonial, as it defines the point when the 35S Soyuz  crew becomes prime in the event of an ISS emergency. The 35S crew consisting of Yurchikhin, Parmitano, and Nyberg will remain onboard the ISS until their return, currently planned for 11 November, 2013. 

