
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST):  In support of BEST Experiment 2, the crew reviewed the on-board training, retrieved and inserted the appropriate items in cold stowage, and transferred cells from the cell kit to media tubes. The investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.  The validation of direct ribonucleic acid sequencing has the potential to be a game-changer for research into crew health, and understanding how organisms respond to spaceflight.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The crew changed the Main Box Mode Switching from Mode 1 to Mode 2.  Mode 2 is a high resolution mode which generates more data per day than Mode 1 and is being used during the solar quiet period.  ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Fiber Dosimeter: The crew took photos of Inboard Fiber Dosimeter and its storage situation for analyzing radiation dosage. The objective of Fiber Dosimeter is to evaluate the use of fabricated optical fibers as space radiation passive dosimeters to monitor the radiation environment inside and outside of the ISS. While astronauts spend most of their time inside ISS, during Extra Vehicular Activity, the radiation protection is provided by the spacesuit. Thus, radiation monitoring inside and outside of the ISS is required to estimate the radiation dosage that astronauts receive during their time in space.
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) measurements, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and ultrasound scans in support of the Fluid Shifts investigation.  This is week 2 of the 3-week sequence and focuses on baseline imaging.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, that involves human subject sessions for Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis spread over several weeks. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Microgravity Crystals: In conclusion of the activities started yesterday, the crew set up a microscope, then took images of the solutions and any crystals in the wells of the crystal plates. The investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for HTV-8 launch scheduled for September 10 and capture on September 14, the crew reviewed reference material, then performed on-board proficiency training on the mission profile, the rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding HTV. 
Acoustic Monitor Noise Survey: The crew used an acoustic monitor to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS by taking sound level readings. Measurements were taken in Columbus, Node2, US Lab, Node 3 and Service Module. This is a regularly scheduled activity to maintain acceptable noise levels which contributes to overall crew health.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Overnight, Robotics ground controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the SSRMS with the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock. The JEM Airlock slide table was then extended with the repaired Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU). Once the slide table was extended, the MBSU was removed with SPDM Arm 1. After maneuvering SSRMS and SPDM away from the JEM Airlock, SPDM Arm 2 removed the failed MBSU from the Active Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (AFRAM) located on the SPDM Enhanced ORU and Tool Platform (EOTP) side 2. The SPDM Arm 1 was used to install the repaired MBSU on the empty AFRAM. The failed Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) was then installed on the JEM Airlock slide table and the slide table was retracted in the JEM Airlock. Finally, the Mobile Transporter (MT) was then translated to Worksite 3.
Solar Array Max Loading Power Test:  Solar array max power testing is scheduled for this week.  Today, testing is in progress on channels 3A, 2B, 4B, 4A. This test loads the arrays to as close to full capacity as possible in order to measure the power generation for trending purposes.

