
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployers:  Additional attempts to launch CubeSats from deployers #4, 7, and 8 were made overnight without success. 24 commands were sent attempting to deploy #4, 30 commands were sent to deployer #7, and 17 deploy commands were sent to deployer #8.  Ground Teams are continuing to assess the issue and are working on a forward plan.
Sprint Evaluation of Maximal Oxygen Uptake and Submaximal Estimates of VO2max Before, During, and After Long Duration International Space Station Missions (VO2Max): Commander (CDR) Swanson set up the Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) hardware and conducted a VO2Max data collection session while exercising on the Cycle-Ergometer Vibration Isolation System (CEVIS). VO2Max documents changes in maximum oxygen uptake for crewmembers on board the ISS during long-duration missions. 
Energy: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst continued Day 2 of the Energy investigation. Gerst continued to collect urine samples and eat a special diet. FE-5 Wiseman also collected urine samples as the control subject. Energy measures change in energy balance in crewmembers following long term space flight. Energy also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge of energy requirements is of a great importance to ensure health, good performance and the overall success of a mission, and also contributes to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight. 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Smartphone Mapping: Swanson continued to map the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM), Lab, and Node 2 using a Smartphone delivered on Orbital-2. The ground team will process the data to make a map of the interior of the ISS in preparation for a SPHERES Smartphone navigation demonstration. The SPHERES Smartphone investigation will demonstrate telerobotic operations using SPHERES and smartphone technology, as well as assess the capability of consumer electronics to perform vision-based navigation. Once the interior of the ISS has been mapped, ground teams will use the data to guide the SPHERES satellites through the ISS.
MAGVECTOR Final Installation:  Swanson completed the final installation of MAGVECTOR. The installation was started last week, but ran long due to a series of Teslameter measurements inside the European Drawer Rack (EDR) that took longer than expected. MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The set up will provide initial insights regarding the principal feasibility on board the ISS, future improvements and phenomenological trends and dependencies. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the Ram and Wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research. 
Internal (INT) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Software Load:  In support of the X2R13 software transition, ground controllers loaded newly delivered software (INTSYS R9) onto both of the INT MDM’s. As part of this activity, planned INT MDM transitions were performed without issue. INT 2 MDM is currently the primary MDM, with INT 1 as the backup.
Crew Departure Preparation:  Swanson prepared for his departure from ISS by packing up his personal items. The items will be returned to the ground onboard Soyuz 38S, SpaceX-4, and SpaceX-5.  Swanson’s return to earth is scheduled for September 10th.
SpaceX-4 Prepack:  In preparation for the SpaceX-4 mission, Wiseman packed items for return to earth. SpaceX-4 is scheduled to be berthed to ISS from September 20th through October 18th.

