
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valve (ASV) 103 Remove and Replace (R&R):  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy performed an R&R of the Node 3 CDRA ASV.  The valve had failed to reach its commanded position (position B) on GMT 214 and 228. Telemetry indicated that the valve had stalled in an intermediate position. This R&R will consume the last spare onboard ISS. However, additional valves are currently being prepared for launch on SpX-3. The valve that will be removed will remain onboard for use in a contingency.  Valve cleaning would be necessary to recover the valve functionality if it becomes necessary.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES): Cassidy and FE-5 Parmitano prepared two SPHERES for Smartphone control. The crew loaded programs and controlled SPHERES via the Smartphone to perform inspection tasks.  SPHERES are bowling-ball sized spherical satellites. Each satellite is self-contained with power, propulsion, computers and navigation equipment. The results are important for satellite servicing, vehicle assembly and formation flying spacecraft configurations.  Information learned from this experiment may lead to simpler autonomous docking allowing for servicing, re-supplying, reconfiguring and upgrading of space systems.
Asian Seed Experiment Termination:  FE-6 Nyberg retrieved and made observations of red bean sprouts after cultivation.  Downlinked video of crew operations provide students in the Asia-Pacific region with opportunity to learn about space experiments and the space environment.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Failure:  On Wednesday evening the UPA unexpectedly shutdown approximately 3 hours into a nominal processing cycle.  A data review determined that the cause of the shutdown was due to a spike of the high motor current in the Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA).  No additional anomalous signatures were seen at the time.  This morning ground control teams attempted a restart of the UPA, but the UPA immediately shutdown due to a high motor current on the FCPA.  Engineering teams will continue to review data from these events; however sustained high motor current signatures have led to FCPA R&Rs in the past. The current FCPA Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) was installed in March of this year.  Currently there is one spare FCPA on-board and an additional FCPA is expected to arrive on SpaceX-3.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Ethernet Connection: Today Nyberg performed an activity to connect the TOCA to the Operations Local Area Network (OpsLAN) via Ethernet cable.  The TOCA software was then updated to support this Ethernet connection.  Connecting the TOCA to the OpsLAN will reduce crew time by allowing TOCA data to be copied directly to the network as opposed to requiring the crew to transfer data to the network using a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive.  All indications are that the software upgrade was successful, however an error message was received that indicates a possible network connection issue.  Ground teams are working to resolve the network connection issue, and are discussing options if the issue cannot be resolved prior to the next TOCA run scheduled for Monday.

