
Payloads
Genes in Space-8:  The crew performed the setup of the Fluorescence Viewer and mini-PCR and performed Freeze and Fly Ops #3 to demonstrate the heating and fluorescent visualization functions of the Genes in Space experiment.  Some pharmaceuticals used to maintain astronaut health do not work as well in space, which may be linked to changes in levels of the liver enzymes that metabolize most drugs.  Genes in Space-8 tests the Genes in Space Fluorescence Viewer; a new technology for monitoring the expression of genes that control these critical enzymes. This test could lead to a better understanding of spaceflight-induced changes in liver gene expression and may support development of new therapies that can account for the body’s adaptations to spaceflight.
GRIP:  A crewmember executed the GRIP Dynamics Seated Protocol Session 1 of 3. The GRIP experiment studies long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements, and tapping gestures.
LSG (Life Sciences Glovebox): The crew checked the Power Emitter cable connections (four) to the Power Output Distribution jacks in the LSG Work Volume and installed the secondary foot restraints. The Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Space Embryo:  The crew removed Culture Bags (four) from cold stowage and performed Medium exchanges after sample thawing. Culture Bags were installed (two each) into the CBEF Micro-G and 1G incubator units.  Mammalian Early Embryogenesis Under Microgravity State in Space (Space Embryo) studies the developmental potential of mammalian embryos in microgravity.  Microgravity may affect preimplantation embryo development in mammalian species, but until now most studies of reproduction in space were limited to fish or amphibian species.  Researchers plan to culture mouse embryos for four days to observe whether they achieve normal development.
Systems
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Bed Cleaning: The crew cleaned the CDRA Desiccant Adsorbent Bed Adsorbent Cover Filter Assembly and performed a leak check of the Desiccant Adsorbent Bed. CDRA maintains cabin carbon dioxide partial pressure levels within specified limits, while minimizing air and water losses to space.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for the 4A ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep EVA. The crew charged the EVA camera battery and configured the camera for use. The ISS 4A IROSA Prep EVA is scheduled for Sunday, September 12th.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Inspection: The crew inspected ARED VIS Rails, VIS Rollers, Upper Stop Cables, and X-Rotation Dashpots. They also obtained feedback on ARED performance while the ARED Lift Bar is moving between Lower Stops and Upper Stops. ARED uses adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders, along with a flywheel system, to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.

