
Airway Monitoring: Today the crew continued the preparatory activities for the GMT 250 Airway Monitoring US Airlock Session. These activities included setting up the camera and hardware required for Airway Monitoring in the US Airlock. The Airway Monitoring investigation aims to determine in detail the pulmonary nitric oxide turnover in weightlessness and in combined weightless, hypobaric and hypoxic environments. It also has a goal of determining the lung diffusion capacity for nitric oxide. With dust particles present in the ISS atmosphere, this investigation studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This will help to identify health impacts and support maintenance of crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, such as to the Moon and Mars, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in identifying and avoiding such conditions.
BEST: Today the crew prepared the RNA sample and began a 48-hour sequencing run. This was an experiment number three run which uses high quality RNA prepared on the ground and flown on OA-9.  This allows direct comparison of data from ISS and the ground. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS. 
Rodent Research-7 Habitat Camera Clean: In today’s activity, the crew performed a camera cleaning for both habitats. The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions.
High Definition TV-Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Exposed Facility-2 (HDTV-EF2) R&R: Today the crew removed the degraded JEM EF HDTV Camera Unit from the Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) Adapter. A new, replacement camera was subsequently installed on the EFU Adapter in preparation for tomorrow’s JEM Airlock depressurization and Monday’s installation of the HDTV unit. The HDTV-EF2 is a high-definition television camera system, which is used for Earth observation from the International Space Station. 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session and Self Study: The crew tasked with capturing HTV-7 performed On-Board Training (OBT) today via self-study and by using the Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT). ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. Today’s runs allowed the crew to practice a 30-meter approach and two Capture Point (CP) hold runs. After the training session, the crew had a conference with ground specialists where they discussed any final questions or comments related to capture and berthing operations. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the upcoming HTV-7 Battery R&R EVAs, the crew used computer-aided simulations to review EVA procedures via Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) and the Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT). In addition to this training, the crew also reviewed procedures associated with the Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) and completed some additional EVA tool configuration. The first EVA in the pair is scheduled for 20 September while the second planned EVA is scheduled on 26 September.
Public Affairs (PAO) Events: This morning Gerst participated in an European Space Agency (ESA) educational event with Angela Merkel, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, during an Awards Ceremony for the “Jugend forscht” (“Youth research”) science contest. Topics discussed include Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) education, experiments being performed on ISS, and how we can protect our planet in the years to come.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations: Last night, the Robotics Ground Controllers (ROBO) completed the first day of an external video survey of the Columbus module. The European Space Agency (ESA) requested the two-day optical impact survey of the outer surface of the Columbus module with emphasis on the forward-and zenith-facing areas. This status check will verify the status of the Columbus meteoroid and debris protection system (MDPS) and obtain information on the space debris and meteoroid environment of the ISS. MSS performance was nominal.  Tonight ROBO will relocate SPDM and the SSRMS will be walked off from MBS1 to Node 2 and positioned for Friday’s HTV offset grapple session.

