
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K): Preparation activities continued for the ARED-K experiment, with a goal of performing the first science session next week. ARED is the current resistive exercise device used as a countermeasure to musculoskeletal deconditioning in microgravity. However, a major unknown is the internal bone and muscle forces developed during exercise in microgravity. In addition, squat and deadlift resistance exercise loads used in flight have to be increased to account for the loss of body weight in microgravity and it is unknown how the level of body weight replacement (BWR) affects bone and muscle loads. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the space station.
Immunity Assay: The crew reviewed the Big Picture Words (BPW), gathered the appropriate hardware, and prepared the Kubik facilities for experiment operations, currently planned for next week. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 Cell-02 (MVP Cell-02): The crew gained access to the MVP Cell-02 facility and removed the Cell-02 science from the facility. The MVP Cell-02 investigation seeks to understand how organisms adapt to the space environment, an important component of future space exploration. Microbes may play fundamental roles in the development of biologically-based closed-loop regenerative life support, in-situ resource utilization, and will have extensive interactions with human and plant hosts. Further, microbes may pose challenges through virulence and contamination, and as nuisance factors such as biofilms in water supply and ventilation systems.
Thor-Davis:  The crew reviewed BPW, and components of the experiment were set up for science collection, which is currently planned to start this weekend. The Thor-Davis investigation aims to provide a better understanding about the impact of thunderstorms on the Earth‘s atmosphere and climate by observing them at stratospheric altitudes from the ISS. Thor-Davis evaluates a neuromorphic camera (or event camera), that can observe thunderstorms and their electrical activity at up to 100,000 frames per second. The overall goal is to better understand, under realistic conditions, the use of such a camera for future use in space for observing processes in severe electrical storms and other applications.
Systems:
Crew-6 Endeavour Departure Preparations: The Endeavour crew was allotted time to prepare for their undock and splashdown. During this time, the crew prepared personal items for return and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks. Ground teams are currently completing check outs of the following systems used during Crew Dragon’s return: the Crew Dragon Seat Actuator, the Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) system, Ground systems, Tracking and Data Relay Satellite (TDRS) systems, and a Prop Checkout. Crew-6 Endeavour undock is currently targeted for early Sunday CDT, with splashdown on Sunday evening CDT.
Emergency Mask Inspection: Today, the crew continued inspection and photo documentation of the emergency masks onboard ISS. Ground teams are developing a forward plan and manifest strategy for the suspect masks found yesterday. The emergency mask Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is designed to provide respiratory protection to crewmembers in response to an ammonia leak or post-fire event.
ISS Crew Handover and Adaptation: The experienced Endeavour Crew and 69S Crew continued the handover with the newly arrived Endurance Crew to transfer knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. The newly arrived crewmembers executed activities while the experienced crewmembers provided oversight and assistance.
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
