
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Actiwatch units were hooked up to Human Research Facility 1 (HRF-1) for charging and data downlinks. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Bio-Monitor: The Bio-Monitor Data Unit was initialized in preparation for a firmware update. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crewmember physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The Slice-7B hardware was partially replaced in order to improve the operational quality of Cold Atom Lab. Closeout steps will be scheduled another day. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Exploration Environmental Health System (EHS) BioMole Facility: The crew cleaned up excess extracted DNA. The useable DNA was amplified with the miniPCR-16 for future sequencing with the MinION. EHS BioMole Facility demonstrates technology for monitoring the microbial environment onboard a spacecraft. As part of a Crew Health Care System (CHeCS), this technology could support missions such as Gateway and Mars transit that do not have the capability to return samples to Earth for analysis. The investigation evaluates the ability of the EHS BioMole Facility to accurately analyze potable water samples on the space station.
General-purpose Oceaneering Latching Device-2 (GOLD-2): As part of reconfiguration from last week’s Gambit sortie, the Passive GOLD-2 unit was removed from the NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL). GOLD-2 is designed to facilitate the attachment of payloads to external payload platforms on the ISS via the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). The Gambit payload was installed onto NRAL external site “D” last week. Gambit evaluates and catalogs performance of the NRAL external sites. Gambit will be moved to all six external sites throughout the course of the investigation, and various sensors measure temperature, vibrations, and radiation to characterize each site. Results could support design and development of future science investigations that use these sites.
Immunity Assay: Sample were collected and reaction tubes were prepared for centrifuge operations in the HRF centrifuge. After centrifuge operations, the reaction tubes were clipped and placed into cold stowage. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Egemen Yildiz Secondary School, İzmir, Turkey. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): Coliform Detection Bags and Microbial Capture Devices (MCDs) were visually analyzed after 48 hours of incubation. The inspection did not identify any microbial growth; however, xPWD is not approved for crew use until commissioning activities are completed and ground teams concur to its use. An on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Systems:
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) Assessment: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA headset and KUDUwave software. An OOHA is done within the first 14 days of flight on the ISS, and then every 60 days thereafter, to assess the peripheral hearing sensitivity of crewmembers while living on the ISS. The results will help the audiology team with data comparisons to conventional pre-flight and post-flight audiometric test results of crewmembers.
NRAL Stowage: Today, the crew replaced stowage in the Node 3 Port Endcone and NRAL Hardware that was removed for the Gambit Sortie operations last week.
