
Lighting Effects: The crew completed a visual assessment test in the Crew Quarters (CQs) by setting the light to the correct mode, turning all other light sources in the CQ off, and performing one Numerical Verification Test and one Color Discrimination Test. The crew will then photograph the completed tests, before transferring the photos for downlink. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Multi-Omics-Mouse:  Today the crew performed routine maintenance operations by filling the transportation cage units with water and refilling the camera washer water of the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit located in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF).  Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In the Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, to determine if they improve the gut environment and immune function.  After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis.
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  In support of the on-going RR-9 investigation, the crew restocked the Animal Habitat Units with new food bars and cleaned the lid and interior cages. RR-9 studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays aboard the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joints, eyes and the immune system. 
MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS) Electronic Unit Removal: While removing the failed spare Electronic Unit from MELFI-1, which will be 1 of 2 units returned on SpX-12.; the crew found corrosion on the fluid line connector. This activity has been paused until the ground teams can determine a forward plan of action. The MELFI is a cold storage unit that maintains experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures until those samples can be returned to the ground for analysis.
Space Headaches:  The crew completed weekly questionnaires for the ESA Space Headaches investigation today.  The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.

