
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): On Sunday, the crew checked the camera alignment and focus by viewing the latest BCAT images on a laptop.  TheBCAT-CS investigation studies the forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles.  Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration. 
Sextant Navigation: Yesterday the crew performed a repeat of the fifth session for the Sextant Navigation investigation. In this repeat session, the operator and assistant roles were reversed in order to gain proficiency on both crew members. The crew collected the data and recorded the results for ground evaluation and this was reported to be the most productive session to date. This session focused on sighting position evaluation. Astronauts onboard the ISS test a hand-held sextant that is intended for use on future Orion exploration missions. The results from this investigation can aid in the development of emergency navigation methods for future manned spacecraft. Historically, Gemini missions in 1965-66 were the first to exercise sextant sightings from a spacecraft. A sextant was built into Apollo vehicles as a navigation backup in case of lost communications.
Neuromapping: A crewmember set up the Neuromapping hardware yesterday in order to perform the Flight Day 90 tests in both “strapped in” and “free floating” body configurations. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation includes use of structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Material Science Research Rack (MSRR): Today the MSRR was activated for the first time following the removal and replacement of the Master Controller on August 29th. The activation was nominal and ground teams were able to successfully checkout the new Master Controller.  MSRR requires a successful software update to the Master Controller and a Vacuum Resource System (VRS)/Vacuum Exhaust System (VES) leak check before being used to support science runs. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: Earlier today, the crew performed the 90-day maintenance loop scrub and iodination task on EMUs 3006, 3008, and the Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garments (LCVGs). This was the first use of the newly designed Airlock Cooling Loop Recovery (ALCLR) hardware. The ALCLR system is a suite of water processing hardware that is used to service the transport water loops in the EMU and airlock water systems. ALCLR removes ionic, organic, and particulate contamination and provides long-term microbial control through injection of activated iodine.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today the crew completed initial configuration of the tools and hardware that will be used during the upcoming H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Battery R&R EVAs in September. Spread across several days, today’s activity completed configuration of Safety Tether Packs and EVA Wire Tie Caddies as well as ensure all EVA tools are in the proper config. The first EVA in the pair is scheduled for 20 September while the second planned EVA is scheduled on 26 September.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Rendezvous & Capture Computer Based Training (CBT): In preparation for next week’s launch of HTV-7, the crew completed on-board CBT this morning.  This comprehensive review covered the HTV-7 mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures, and the crew interfaces used to both monitor and command to the HTV spacecraft.  HTV-7 is scheduled to launch on 14 September from the Tanegashima Space Center in Japan.
On Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Emergency Drill: Today the 55S crew performed an Emergency Egress Drill.  During this drill, the 55S crew reviewed procedures needed during off-nominal situations before using the onboard trainer to practice the actions required in the event of an emergency egress and Soyuz descent. The crew also completed self-study reviews of various nominal procedures to include Sokol suit donning and leak checks. This training is scheduled every 12-14 weeks and ensures the crew is adequately prepared to respond to an on-orbit emergency.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event: Alexander Gerst participated in the European Space Agency DLR “Time Capsule” event in Berlin, Germany. The audience included more than 1000 pupils (9 to 14 years) gathered together with media and high-ranking representatives of the German federal government plus local authorities.
Nacho Service Pack: Today ground specialists reloaded Crew Space Station Computers (SSCs) 1, 3, 14, 19, 20, and 21 with the Nacho Service Pack. Tonight, they are scheduled to reload Operations SSCs 4, 5, 9, 15, 17, 18, and 22 during crew sleep. One of the many updates included in the Nacho Service Pack are crew accounts for the 56S and 57S crewmembers as well as an upgrade to Microsoft Office 2016.

