
MBSU I-Level Maintenance:  In early August, ground teams successfully transferred a degraded Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) from External Stowage Platform 2 (ESP2) site 4 to the JEM Airlock. Today, the crew removed the MBSU from the JEM A/L and performed Intermediate Level (I-Level) maintenance on the unit.  This MBSU is one of two failed units externally stowed on orbit that will be brought inside to undergo maintenance and repair. 
Lighting Effects: This morning a crewmember provided a sleep log entry for the Lighting Effects investigation. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. Fluorescent bulbs are being replaced with solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that have adjustable intensity and color. Investigators will determine if the new lights improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Camera Inspections: After completing routine inspections of the LMM Confocal Unit, LMM Confocal Camera, LMM Wide-field Camera, and the LMM Observation Camera for shattered materials, the crew reported that no damage was found to the equipment.  The Light Microscopy Module (LMM) is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the International Space Station (ISS). The LMM enables novel research of microscopic phenomena in microgravity, with the capability of remotely acquiring and downloading digital images and videos across many levels of magnification. The way that matter is organized and moves on the microscopic level profoundly affects the macroscopic world and an understanding of such processes helps scientists and engineers build more efficient materials and machines both for both the earth and space environments.
MAGVECTOR: The crew configured the power supply and supporting equipment prior to initiating the 13th experiment run of the MAGVECTOR investigation, which ends Thursday of next week.  MAGVECTOR investigates how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future International Space Station experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general, the backbone of our technology.

