
Biological Rhythms 48-Hour: On Monday, Kelly attempted to don the Biological Rhythms Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG), however he was unable to get good signal conduction.  He changed the battery but was still unable to register a good signal.  He is scheduled to restart the activity tomorrow with additional prep time for donning the harness. Biological Rhythms 48-hour studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While the ISS follows Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), it remains unknown whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this astronauts wear an Actiwatch sleep monitor for 96 hours and a Holter electrocardiograph for 48 hours in the middle of that sequence.
 
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Removal: Kelly retracted the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table (ST) into the module and removed the NRCSD #5 from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP).  The MPEP was left on the ST for tomorrow’s installation of the Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer #4 (J-SSOD #4).
 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU) Checkout: Yui continues to perform installation and checkouts of the MHU delivered on HTV-5.  Today, he installed the Glovebox and ancillary equipment, performed checkout steps followed by closeout steps.
 
On-Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Drill: The 44S crew participated in the descent training session to cover procedures and actions that the crew will perform during undock and landing operations on Friday 11-September.
 
Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI)-2:  Overnight, MELFI-2 experienced a power anomaly. The crew was able to verify both Main and Auxiliary power were applied to the MELFI-2 Rack Interface Unit (RIU). However, the RIU was not supplying power to the Electronics Box.  MELFI-2 has since been powered down and samples transferred to MELFI-1.  Ground teams will be assessing troubleshooting further plans.
 
ISS Reboost:  Over the weekend, the ISS performed a nominal reboost in preparation for 61P docking on October 1st.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  The Mobile Transporter (MT) was moved from WS7 to WS5.  The Robotic Flight Controllers will be walking the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off from Mobile Remote Servicer (MRS) Base System (MBS) Power and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)-2 to the Node 2 PDGF.
 
ESA Short Duration Mission
SKINSUIT: Mogensen completed his second suit donning period. The suit was worn before starting the MOBILE‐HR second activity.  Morning and evening height measurements were also performed, with support of Volkov and Kelly. Mogensen also completed the suit microbial swab session.   Mogensen also completed the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) questionnaire. Today the SKINSUIT suit has been packed for return with 42S.  When astronauts are in space, they do not experience the effects of gravity and one result of this is that they do not have any body weight. We know that astronauts grow taller in space and we think the main reason for this is that, without the weight of their upper body pressing down on it, their spine ‘stretches’ – it becomes less curved and the discs that separate the bones of the spine fill with more fluid (fluid that is normally squeezed out by the weight of their upper body). This investigation will test a new piece of clothing called ‘SkinSuit’, which is designed to simulate the effect of body weight, to see if it can control this stretching.
 
MELONDAU: yesterday DEMES tasting session#3 and DEMES hedonic questionnaire were completed nominally. Today, session #2 and hedonic test #2 were also performed.  Long‐distance and long‐term human space travel will only be possible with adequate life support systems in place, allowing extensive recycling of water and the in situ production of oxygen and food, with closed regenerative systems the most ideal way of reducing launch mass and costs. MELONDAU is a significant precursor flight experiment which will verify the recovery of biological processes of selected micro‐organisms, test a microfluid system essential for the overall monitoring and control of a closed regenerative life support system, and verify the acceptability of snacks composed of Micro‐Ecological Life Support System Alternative (MELiSSA) ingredients. This is a first step to enable the successful deployment of ESA’s MELiSSA system in space in the future.
 
MOBILE‐HR: yesterday, the second part of the CEVIS protocol was completed by Mogensen wearing the SKINSUIT suit. Heart rate is a common measurement in ISS human research investigations and a simplified chest strap device is often used which reduces the computing power (needed for undertaking an ECG) and often interfaces wirelessly to a receiving device for storage and distribution. Existing technology is based on electromagnetic pulses being transmitted for every heartbeat and is open to signal interference due to the ISS environment, so this experiment will evaluate Bluetooth performance in comparison to magnetic pulse technology, and ensure that multiple Bluetooth devices can operate in the same environment. If the Bluetooth technology proves superior to the magnetic pulse system, this could provide improvements to future payload developments, and provide a greater stability in the data for human research investigations.
 
MARES: Today Mogensen and Volkov successfully deployed the MARES in preparation for tomorrow’s activities. The ESA Muscle Atrophy Research and Exercise System (MARES) is a physiological research facility that will be used to carry out research on musculoskeletal, biomechanical, and neuromuscular human physiology. The Commissioning Part#2 is the last step in this research rack check‐out activities. Its main goal is the performance of an integrated man‐in‐the‐loop technical protocol which characterizes all MARES sub‐systems and associated auxiliary measurement devices (ultrasound, electrical muscle stimulation and electromyogram).
 
ENDOTHELIAL CELLS: Yui reported the KUBIK FM5 status: +37degC and 1.0g centrifuge set‐points. All nominal. The science run is continuing with incubation of the samples at +37degC until 09‐September, according to a pre‐programmed sequence. Human subjects and experimental animal models returning from space have shown muscle‐skeletal and cardiovascular problems accredited to injury of the endothelium: the system of cells lining the inner surface of all blood vessels. This project aims at understanding the reaction of cultured endothelial cells to spaceflight through cellular and genetic analysis.
 

