
44 Soyuz (44S) Docking: 44S, carrying Aidyn Aimbetov, Andreas Mogensen and Sergey Volkov, is scheduled to dock to the ISS tomorrow, Friday, September 4 at 2:42 am CDT.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: 

Body Measures: Lindgren, with Kelly as the operator, completed his Flight Day 45 (FD45) Body Measures data collection.  Lindgren set up cameras and video and donned the body marker instrumentation, collected the calibration and body pose photographs and the circumference measurements, then doffed the body markers, and finally collected the Neutral Body Posture video with operator assistance.  Currently, NASA does not have sufficient in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) gathered to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. This study collects anthropometric data (body measurements) using digital still and video imagery and a tape measure to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (i.e., chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts for pre-, post-, and in-flight conditions.
Cognition: Yui completed his FD46 Cognition. Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measures how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.

 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Reconfiguration: Yui performed Day 4 of the CBEF reconfiguration, installing the Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU) into the CBEF. The JAXA operations team will now conduct functional checkout commanding.
 
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack-2 (MSPR-2): Yui continued with MSPR-2 setup and commissioning.  Today’s operations included connection and configuration of the Experiment Laptop Terminal (ELT), Local Area Network (LAN) checkout, and USB communication checkout.
 
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #6 Imaging: Kelly collected images of the NRCSD #6 delivered on HTV-5.  Based on issues with previous NRCSDs, ground teams requested these images to capture the existing tolerances in the Secondary Release Mechanisms.  Images were downlinked for ground analysis.  NRCSD #6 is scheduled to be installed in the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) and deployed during Increment 45.
 
Area Passive Dosimeter for Life-Science Experiments in Space (PADLES) Removal: Yui removed the 17 Increment 43/44 PADLES from the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) and Japanese Experiment Logistics Module – Pressurized Section (JLP) and provided them to Padalka for packing in the 42S for return. Area PADLES is an investigation that uses area dosimeters to continuously monitor the radiation dose aboard the ISS. Radiation exposure can have significant biological effects on living organisms including the biological investigations being done on ISS in the JEM/Kibo. By installing area dosimeters at 17 fixed locations inside the Kibo Module, continuous area radiation monitoring can be provided throughout the ISS Kibo program.
 
Capillary Effects of Drinking in the Microgravity Environment (Capillary Beverage): Kelly and Lindgren performed sessions of Capillary Beverage to observe fluid interface and critical wetting behavior during drinking and draining activities. Microgravity affects the way fluids behave, and as such, crew members must drink from special sealed bags instead of using straws or normal cups. Capillary Beverage studies the process of drinking from specially designed Space Cups that use fluid dynamics to mimic the effect of gravity.
 

