
Skin-B: Commander (CDR) Swanson conducted his last Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. This experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but greatly accelerated in space. It will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Canada 1 (C1) Closeout: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman transferred BCAT-C1 images from the camera for downlink and stowed the BCAT-C1 hardware. The experiment will study nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in commercial commodities such as paint, electronic polishing compounds, and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity will allow the measurement of the processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. The study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP) Set Up: Wiseman set up the BCAT-KP hardware, homogenize the next sample, and set up the camera intervalometer to initiate automated pictures. BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2): FE-6 Gerst deployed eight bubble detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment. The objective is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to crewmembers’ health and provide data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) Setup: ISS Commander (CDR) Swanson set up the PPFS which was delivered on Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 to replace the broken unit on orbit. Wiseman helped Swanson with a portion of the setupand the ground enabled a 50-second communication delay as wellduring a portion of the task. The Comm Delay Assessment investigates whether communication delays likely to be experienced on a mission to and from Mars will result in clinically or operationally significant negative impacts in crew behavior and performance. The PPFS is used in the Sprint Evaluation of Maximal Oxygen Uptake and Submaximal Estimates of VO2max Before, During, and After Long Duration International Space Station Missions (VO2Max) investigation. While waiting for the new unit to arrive on ATV-5, ground teams created a workaround so crews could still participate in the VO2Max investigation. 
Energy: Gerst started Energy Day 0 today. donning an armband monitor, setting up the Pulmonary Function System (PFS) hardware, and eating a controlled diet. For this part of the investigation, Wiseman is the control subject. Energy measures change in energy balance in crewmembers following long term space flight. Energy also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Knowledge of energy requirements is of a great importance to ensure health, maximum performance and overall success of a mission, and also ensures adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight.
X2R13 Software Transition: Yesterday, all 6 crew members reviewed plans for the software update that began today and will be finalized on Friday. Today, Wiseman retrieved and deployed 7 Portable Computer System (PCS) hard drives that were pre-loaded with the new software and delivered on ATV-5.  Meanwhile, Ground Controllers reconfigured ISS Systems after a planned Command and Control (C&C) MDM transition. The primary C&C MDM (#2) is now running with the Command and Control Software (CCS) Revision 13.
X2R13 transition will update software within the following hardware:

6 Computer Software Configuration Items (CSCIs)
7 Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs)
2 KU Control Units (KCUs)
7 Portable Computer Systems (PCSs)


