
44 Soyuz (44S) Launch: 44S is scheduled to launch from Baikonur tonight at 11:37pm CDT carrying Aidyn Aimbetov, Andreas Mogensen and Sergey Volkov to the ISS which will increase the crew complement to 9 members.  Docking is scheduled for this Friday, September 4 at 2:42am CDT.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: 

Fluid Shifts Flight Day 150 (FD150) Baseline Imaging Measurement: Today, Kornienko completed his Flight Day 150 (FD150) baseline imaging for the Fluid Shifts experiment.  Kelly acted as the onboard imager and with ground remote guidance, ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body.  Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer will be taken later today.  The imagery session was within the 10 day requirement following last week’s dilution measurements.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): Kelly completed his FD160 Fine Motor Skills session.  During the Fine Motor Skills experiment crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.

 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Reconfiguration: Yui continued with the CBEF reconfiguration, removing and replacing the CBEF Incubator Unit (IU) 1G door.  Today’s operations also included connecting the Incubator Unit (IU) 1G Door Sensor and 1G Vent Fan Cable, and replacing the CO2 Sensor and finally attaching the IU 1G Sample Centrifuge Foam. These modifications are in support of the Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU) has 3 features; individual breeding, artificial gravity and live return. It supports to evaluate more precise effects of the long-term microgravity exposure, which results can be applied to human being.  CBEF reconfiguration will continue tomorrow.
 
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR)-2 Installation and Checkout: Lindgren completed the post-transfer reconfigurations of the MSPR-2 rack.  He will be removing launch locks, installing and mating connections for power, water, and argon gas lines. Following the reconfiguration, Lindgren performed the checkout the Rack Power Switch, Fire Indication, and High Rate Data Multiplexer System (HRMS).  MSPR-2 commissioning continues tomorrow.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm 2 to position Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism 2 (OTCM2) to grasp the Micro-Square Fixture (MSF) of Space Test Program – Houston 4 (STP-H4) and uninstall it from External Logistics Carrier (ELC) 1.  After maneuvering into position, the SSRMS and SPDM then mated STP-H4 to the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) External Platform (EP).  SPDM release of STP-H4 was followed by a pre-disposal survey using SPDM and ISS cameras.  SPDM was then configured for stow and maneuvered to the Mobile Base System (MBS) where it was stowed on Power and Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2).  During the mating the SPDM LEE safed and lost calibration and mating was not reported complete although the umbilicals were connected.  The Robotics Ground Controllers used manual latching to ensure the umbilicals were fully mated, then reset the SPDM LEE calibration and continued with the SPDM base change and release.  Finally, the SSRMS was maneuvered to a Mobile Transporter (MT) translate configuration.
 
HTV Cargo Transfer Status:  Lindgren completed 3.25 hours of HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today. A total of 25 hours remain to complete HTV-5 cargo operations.
 

