
Payloads:
Circadian Light: Using the EveryWear app on a tablet, a start-of-the-next-day assessment was performed. Circadian Light tests a new lighting system that is designed to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm in comparison to the current lighting aboard the ISS. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): Water samples were collected from the xPWD system, and a Total Organic Carbon (TOC) analysis was performed. The current on-orbit Potable Water Dispenser (PWD), launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. The new system, the Exploration Potable Water Dispenser, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Food Processor: The crew gathered the appropriate items and used the Food Processor to prepare a chocolate mousse per the recipe. The objective of the ISS Advanced System for Space Food (Food Processor) investigation is to test a prototype equipment demonstrator with one specific recipe that uses basic cooking functions (beating egg whites, mixing products). The fully functional future version of the Food Processor equipment provides extra capability to weigh, mix, knead, heat, dry, cook, color, and rehydrate, and will be developed and available for future exploration missions.
Immunity Assay: Sample processing was continued for the science session, which began yesterday. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
Life Support Rack (LSR): The ADLink mini-PC system was replaced with a new unit for use with the LSR. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization that captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR is planned to operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Sleep in Orbit: Another overnight sleep recording session was performed. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG (electroencephalography) based sleep monitoring.
SpaceWear: A crewmember donned the experiment hardware and initiated data acquisition. The purpose of the Demonstration of a Wearable for Space and Extreme Environments (SpaceWear Monitor) technology demonstration is to prove the functionality of the Wearable Health Monitoring System by a crewmember aboard the ISS. This is achieved by collecting data for analysis on the following parameters: G-loads (when worn during launch/landing), electrocardiogram (ECG) using one lead, heart rate (HR), heart rate variability, respiratory rates, and skin temperature.
Vascular Aging and Space Health Combined Session: Bio-Monitor donning and breath calibration were performed, a Space Health questionnaire was filled out, and a Vascular Aging 13-hour blood pressure session was initiated. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Vascular Aging investigates indications that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries.
Systems:
Node 3 Overhead Forward Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Diffuser Cleaning: The crew donned Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and performed cleaning operations on the IMV diffusers located at NOD3OF3 and NO3OF5. Additionally, the ducting behind the diffusers were inspected and cleaned for additional Foreign Object Debris (FOD) buildup. Finally, the crew took photos and downlinked those to the ground for additional analysis. The IMV system consists primarily of a number of valves, fans, and air ducts which circulate air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that excessive moisture, heat, particulates, metabolic products, and contaminants can be removed from the atmosphere, smoke detection can be performed, and a homogenous conditioned atmospheric composition is maintained throughout ISS.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): An R&R of the Pre-Treat Tank was performed by the crew as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
MSS Operations: The Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) to worksite 6. After translate was complete they powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power & Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF 2). Following that the SSRMS was maneuvered to walkoff from MBS PDGF 3 to Lab PDGF. The SSRMS was then maneuvered to park and the MSS cameras were powered down. This activity was performed in preparation for the walkoff to the Russian FGB to perform the 70S survey. However, during the walkoff operations to the FGB, the ROBO team noticed an issue with the SSRMS Base Elbow Camera not being able to focus. At this time, the team has attempted a power cycle and will need to perform additional troubleshooting steps before proceeding.
