
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)8 Status: Tuesday’s HTV8 launch attempt was scrubbed due to a fire at the launch pad. At approximately 1:05 pm (CT) a fire was observed on the Mobile Launcher (ML), just below the first stage main engines. The H-IIB Rocket carrying the HTV8 spacecraft arrived back at the Vehicle Assembly Building at ~4:15 AM CT on Wednesday. Detailed inspections are underway in order to determine the root cause and identify extent of damage to the ML and H-IIB Rocket. Teams are assessing plans until an official HTV launch date is announced. 
Microgravity Crystals (MGC): The crew set up a microscope, then took images of the solutions and any crystals in the wells of the crystal plates. As part of Session 4 operations. The Microgravity Crystals investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects.
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew gathered hardware and set up the Life Sciences Glovebox in preparation for upcoming Rodent operations. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth.
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: The crew worked in the Airlock and prepared EVA tools in support of upcoming P6 Battery EVAs. The EVAs are required in order to transition the ISS energy storage systems from nickel hydrogen batteries to the newly designed lithium ion batteries.
Health Maintenance System Ocular Ultrasound: Today, the crew used the medical ultrasound device to take various measurements of the eyes and vascular system. These exams are part of the regular health and medical maintenance for the crew that examines how the microgravity related head-ward fluid shifts impacts ocular health during long-duration space flight missions.
Plasma Contactor Unit 2 (PCU-2) Health Flag:  On Thursday, telemetry indicated a health flag in the memory of PCU-2.  Ground Teams reviewed data from the device and determined the error to be correctable with a refresh. The refresh was performed successfully.

