
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS):  The crew checked camera alignment and focus by viewing the latest BCAT images on a laptop. BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles.  Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration.
Biochemical Profile: The HRF Urine and Blood collection setup was completed today. The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Plant Habitat-1: The crew performed a water refill into the Plant Habitat distribution system. Plant Habitat is a fully automated facility that will be used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. The space environment is stressful for all living organisms. Understanding how plants respond will help crews on future missions successfully grow plants for food and oxygen generation. The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between plants grown in space and on Earth.  This investigation is expected to provide key insights on major changes occurring in plants exposed to microgravity. 
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): BEST samples were retrieved and Part 3 of DNA sequencing was initiated. The miniPCR hardware was stowed. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS. 
External High Definition Camera (EHDC) Latch Block Adjustment: During preparations for US ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) 49, the crew discovered that EHDC S/N 1001 did not lock properly into place onto a Color Television Camera (CTVC). Follow-on troubleshooting determined than an adjustment of the Latch Block mechanism could compensate for interference issues caused by stacked manufacturing tolerances, improving alignment and providing a better mating between assemblies. After today’s adjustment, the crew completed a “pull test” to ensure proper engagement of the latch block and a good dock of the EHDC onto the CTVC.  This EHDC is scheduled to be used to replace a degraded External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) during a January 2019 EVA.
LAB Forward, Port Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV) Fan Cleaning: Flow measurements taken in August identified reduced flow in the Lab to Node 2 IMV system. Since the most likely cause is Foreign Object Debris (FOD) at the fan inlet, the crew inspected and cleaned the fan and silencer inlets today. The IMV flow rates must be greater than 100 cubic feet per minute (cfm) to ensure that the IMV fan is operating outside of the stall region, which reduces airflow and increases fan acoustic noise; the effectivity of today’s cleaning will be checked during the next set of IMV flow measurements.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Education Event: Today Serena Auñón-Chancellor participated in a live Educational PAO event with her alma-matter, George Washington University in Washington, D.C.  A graduate of the University’s School of Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS), Serena’s participation in this community-wide event furthered the SEAS mission of educating future leaders in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) and engaged students from the University and local elementary and high schools.

