
Fluid Shifts Imaging Measurements with Russian Chibis: Today, 1 Year Crewmembers Kelly and Kornienko, with assistance from Volkov and with remote guidance from a ground team, each used a Russian Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure – LBNP) device during examinations for Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT).  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is under investigation to support development of preventative measures against a lasting change in vision.
 
Retraction of the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table:  Following up on the successful launch yesterday of the two JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) #4 satellites, Yui extended the JEMAL slide table out to the JEM Exposed Facility, monitored the soft dock of the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) with the attached JSSOD to the slide table by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), then retracted the slide table and powered off the RMS monitors.
 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Video Troubleshooting:  Yui performed a resistance measurement for the video cable that connects the CBEF and Image Processing Unit (IPU). This is part of the troubleshooting for issues experienced earlier this week during testing of multiple video downlinks.
 
Cognition Investigation:  Kornienko completed a Cognition session today. Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Radi-N Neutron Field Study (Radi-N):  Kononenko handed over eight Radi-N detectors to Lindgren who in turn deployed eight bubble detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N experiment. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
 
SOLAR Investigation: Measurements continue to be taken for ESA’s SOLAR investigation during the current sun visibility window.  Two sun spectrum and two calibration measurements have been performed.  The goal of the SOLAR instruments is to measure solar spectral irradiance and variability.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS)-2 Locker Removal and Disposal:  Following yesterday’s activity to clear the LAB1P5 location of stowage, Lindgren and Yui removed the MSS-2 Locker and disposed of it in the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-5. This volume will eventually be used by Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2) hardware, which will be installed during Increment 46.
 
Station Support Computer (SSC) Donut Service Pack Status:  The Donut Service Pack deployed over the weekend is operating, however continues to experience a couple of issues. On the ground, OPTIMIS Viewer encounters sluggish performance, requiring nonessential users to log off.  Nonessential users can still access Flight Notes, Chits, and Jedi Messages etc..  Onboard ISS, SSC Windows Server “ISS-SERVER1” is experiencing high memory usage and requires ground controllers to reboot the server several times per day to reduce memory consumption.  As long as these reboots are being performed, there’s no impact to the crew.   Ground Teams are working to come up with a more permanent solution to both issues.
 

