ISS On-Orbit Status 09/18/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew rest day.
 
 CDR Skvortsov conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Also upon wake-up, FE-6 Walker performed a new session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays but pulled forward a day because of the pending Progress arrival, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 Alexander completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 At ~8:10am EDT, Skvortsov, Kornienko &amp; Yurchikhin participated in a Russian PAO TV interview for a documentary about the MAI Aircraft Engine Department via Ku+S-Band.
 
 At ~10:00am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~10:40am, Alex, Mikhail &amp; Fyodor engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.     [“Dear Alexander and Mikhail, few days are left till the end of your mission. On the 22nd Alexander hands over his command to Doug Wheelock.  Sasha, what are you going to tell him at this moment?  What are your thoughts while you are getting ready for descent: about finally seeing your family or the fact that your mission was too short?  Please, tell us in general about your stay on the ISS, summarize your work.  Did you manage to complete everything?  Did station become a real home where one wants to return?  Did your opinion about your colleagues change?  How did they turn out to be?  Did you discover anything new about yourself or something changed in your colleague?  What needs to be improved on the station?  You pioneered the new module.  They are saying that with its arrival science experiment capabilities will expand.  Is this true?  Is it comfortable for work?  Please name the most interesting studies from your perspective. Which ones would you like to see incorporated into your program, if it were for you to decide?  Federchka, did you discover any surprises in the recent Progress?  Did you do any observation or studies of the unique Lake Baikal?  Do you assist your mates in getting ready for descent?  What kind of advice, recommendations can you offer?  What can you say about your joint activities?  Did you observe any interesting or unusual events in the last month?”]
 
 At ~11:30am, Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock &amp; Walker joined in a CCE (Crew Choice Event) downlinking a message of greetings &amp; congratulations to the Pearland Little League Team which was at MCC-Houston to speak with the crew.    [The Pearland, TX, Little League team arrived in Houston Monday after spending the last week at the Little League World Series in Pennsylvania.  The team made runner-up (2<sup>nd</sup>) for the US teams, and 4<sup>th</sup> place over-all in the world.  The Japanese team was first place, defeating Hawaii.]
 
 At ~1:05pm, Wheels powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 1:10pm conducted a ham radio session with attendees at the Utah National Parks Council, Sector 7, of the Boy Scouts of America in St. George, UT.
 
 FE-2, FE-3, FE-4 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Tracy at ~4:25am &amp; 3:50pm, Mikhail at ~6:45am, Shannon at ~12:40pm, Wheels at ~2:10pm EDT.
 
 The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after the last T2 session of the day but is now regularly being done once a week after the last T2 session.]
 
 
