
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Preparation for JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) #4 Launch:  In preparation for the deploy of two JSSOD satellites this morning, Yui opened the outer JEM Airlock hatch and extended the slide table to the outside of the ISS.  Ground Controllers used the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS)  Small Fine Arm (SFA) to remove the JSSOD from the slide table and positioned it for deploy of two satellites. Both satellites were succesfully deployed approximately 10 minutes apart. The first satellite is designed to observe the Ultraviolet (UV) spectrum during the Orionid meteor shower in October.  The second satellite, sponsored by the University of Brasilia and the Brazilian government, focuses on meteorological data collection.
 
Fluid Shifts Imaging Measurements with Russian Chibis:  Kelly and Volkov, with assistance from Kornienko and remote guidance from a ground team, each used a Russian Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure – LBNP) device during examinations for Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT).  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is under investigation to support development of preventative measures against a lasting change in vision.
 
Sprint Ultrasound:  Yui performed his Flight Day 60 thigh and calf ultrasound scans today with guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of investigator’s long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
 
HTV Cargo Transfer Status:  Lindgren and Kelly continued working on HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today. Cargo specialist estimate the crew will need approximately 5 hours to complete the HTV-5 cargo operations.
 
LAB1P5 Cleanout:  Lindgren removed all stowage from LAB1P5 lockers in preparation for Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Locker removal and disposal tomorrow. This volume will eventually be used by Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2) hardware, which will be installed during Increment 46.
 

