ISS On-Orbit Status 09/13/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway:  Week 15 of Increment 24.
 
 CDR Skvortsov conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Before morning inspection &amp; breakfast, Tracy began Day 3 of her current 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her 5<sup>th</sup> onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]
 
 Also upon wake-up, Caldwell-Dyson &amp; Wheelock performed a new session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 FE-5 Yurchikhin worked in the Progress 39P vehicle to install the electronic LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and its PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory), using recycled boxes from stowage.  This completes the integration of the cargo ship into the ISS MCS (Motion Control System).
 
 Fyodor also performed periodic service of the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), reading the recorded radiation traces of eight Bubble dosimeters, then initializing &amp; re-deploying the detectors and verifying proper function of the setup with the LULIN-5 electronics box.     [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A21-A28) were initialized in the Bubble dosimeter reader in the SM (Service Module) and positioned at new exposure locations, all in the starboard crew quarters.  The deployment locations of the detectors were photo-documented with the NIKON D2X camera and also reported with initialization data to TsUP via log sheet via OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls],
 
 Also in the SM, Fyodor later unstowed a new BSK-1V Power Switching Unit spare and secured it at the worksite, for tomorrow’s scheduled replacement of the old BSK-1V. 
 
 For their return to Earth next week (9/23), CDR Skvortsov, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson &amp; FE-3 Kornienko tried on their Kentavr suits for a fit check, followed by the standard Kentavr-PMC (Personal Medical Conference).     [The “Centaur” garment (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Chibis" lower body negative pressure suit) is a protective anti-g suit ensemble to facilitate the return of a long-duration crewmember into the Earth gravity.  Consisting of shorts, gaiters, underpants, jersey and socks, it acts as countermeasure for circulatory disturbance, prevents crewmember from overloading during descent and increases orthostatic tolerance during post-flight adaptation.  Russian crewmembers are also advised to ingest fluid-electrolyte additives, viz., three sodium chloride tablets during breakfast and after the midday meal, each time with 300 ml of fluid, and two pills during the meal aboard Soyuz before deorbit.] 
 
 FE-5 serviced the Russian experiment BTKh-10/KONYUGATSIYA (Conjugation), removing its Recomb-K container from KRIOGEM-03M at +4 degC, installing it in the TBU thermostat-controlled incubator at +29 degC and activating the process for about 2.5 hrs, after which he turned it off, with documentary photography by the CDR.
 
 Alexander Skvortsov, assisted in part by Mikhail Kornienko, spent several hours servicing other Russian science payloads delivered on Progress, viz. –
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>BTKh-41 BACTERIOPHAGE – set up containers #8-2 and #8-3 in SM, with documentary photography,</li><li>BTKh-27 ASTROVACCINE – transferred and the case set up in SM, with photography,</li><li>BTKh-26 CASCADE – charged bioreactor, inserted into KT thermostatic container, and activated the mixing process, later removed bioreactor from KT and installed in TBU at +29 deg C, with photography, and</li><li>BTKh-8 BIOTREK – transferred BIOECOLOGY cases and set up inside kits #06 and #07.</li> </ul> 
 Later, Alex also serviced the running experiment “Identifikatsiya” (TEKh-22/Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.   (Last time done: 9/1).
 
 FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson supported payload operations by working on the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack) to rotate it away from the wall and remove the ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) vacuum resource umbilical, plugging the opening with a protective cap and stowing the hose.   [Activity was intended to remove possible calibration disturbance caused by the umbilical contacting the rack].
 
 Tracy also removed the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) alignment guides to allow PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be activated before beginning CIR operations that require a microgravity environment.
 
 On the WRS (Water Recovery System), Tracy changed out the filter of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) and afterwards flushed stagnant water from the filter ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) into drink bags (reclaimed later for use).  This returned the PWD to nominal usage.
 
 With the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) monitoring and MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) activated, FE-6 Walker closed out the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment) after its final run, first removing the sample carousel, alcohol wick, and thermal precipitator, then uninstalling and removing the SAME hardware from the MSG WV (Work Volume).
 
 Shannon Walker, assisted by FE-2, returned the SODI (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument) to its original configuration, today installing three cable harnesses on their original connection points on the SODY baseplate, with FE-2 assisting by holding the baseplate.  Afterwards, Shannon had ~30 min set aside for reviewing SODI procedures and training material prior to ops.     [After SODI’s installation into the MSG WV, the COLLOID experiment will be installed for its operation.  For this, SODI will use the same MLC (MSG Laptop Computer) setup as SAME.]
 
 Tracy started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer).  Shannon deactivated the system ~5 hrs later.   [This was the 22<sup>nd</sup> session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware].
 
 Working on the CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) in the Lab AR1 (Air Revitalization 1) rack, FE-4 Wheelock performed a leak inspection on the Hydraflow connectors of its Bed 201 and installed the MCA DCA (Major Constituent Analyzer / Data &amp; Control Assembly), assisted by FE-2.     [After some issues with the AR2 CDRA in Node-3, which ground controllers recovered OK, today’s maintenance on the Lab CDRA, focusing on the Hydraflow connectors and the MCA, is intended to restore the second CDRA to operation.]
 
 Misha &amp; Sasha had ~2 hrs reserved for transferring return cargo to the Soyuz 22S spacecraft which altogether allows ~60 kg of return mass.  Excessed equipment &amp; trash are disposed of in the Soyuz Orbital Module (BO) which is jettisoned shortly before atmospheric reentry.  Moves were logged in the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
 Fyodor meanwhile performed IMS-tracked cargo transfers &amp; stowage from Progress 39P to the ISS.
 
 FE-5 also unpacked &amp; deployed newly arrived RODF (Russian Operations Data Files) material, updating the books on Technical Experiments (TE), Biological Experiments (BTKh) and Geophysics (GF), transferring the new RPR TGK 407 (Progress M-07M/39P) Cargo Transfer Ops instructions and storing two new ODF CD-ROMs.
 
 A scheduled task for Shannon, to update the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) with new software, was deferred to await a fresh S/W uplink.
 
 Walker disconnected the UOP DCP (Utility Outlet Panel/Display &amp; Control Panel) power bypass cable at the Cupola RWS (Robotic Workstation) which supported additional video coverage of the Progress rendezvous and docking.
 
 FE-3 Kornienko did the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Later, Misha completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 FE-3 was also up for the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time &amp; date values.
 
 Tracy conducted the periodic maintenance &amp; visual inspection of the ARED advanced resistive exerciser, evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration, later checking out the rails &amp; rollers and greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails &amp; rollers.
 
 Sasha collected &amp; downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 12 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard &amp; port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, etc.), with one, the “duty” dosimeter, in the Reader.  Today’s readings were taken from all 11 deployed dosimeters, and dose data were logged and called down to TsUP.  The dosimeters were then re-deployed and the flashcard replaced.     [The dosimeters take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.]
 
 Tracy &amp; Misha had an hour each set aside for personal crew departure preparations, standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers.
 
 FE-4 &amp; FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Wheels at ~10:45am, Shannon at ~2:20pm EDT.
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-4), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-3/2x, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after the last T2 session of the day but is now regularly being done once a week after the last T2 session.]
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo targets uplinked for today.
 
 
