
42 Soyuz (42S) Undock and Landing:  Today, 42S and its Crew (Padalka, Mogensen, and Aimbetov) undocked from the Service Module Aft docking port at 4:29pm CDT. The Soyuz deorbit burn was subsequently performed at 6:59pm CDT which set the stage for a nominal landing in the Kazakhstan southern zone at 7:51pm CDT.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations:  The USOS crewmembers collected blood samples for an ambient return on 42Soyuz.  Kelly collected for his Flight Day 180 (FD180) Microbiome, Yui collected for FD90 Salivary Markers and Telomeres, and Lindgren collected for Telomeres.  The samples were packed and handed to Padalka for stowage in the 42S descent module. Kelly also collected cheek swab (buccal) samples for his participation in the Twins Study.  Kelly and Yui collected saliva samples that were inserted into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for Microbiome and Salivary Markers, respectively, and Yui will finish his urine collections for Salivary Markers.

Twins Study: Twins Study is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple PI’s at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a very unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year; the other mains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
Microbiome: The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Telomeres: Telomeres are “caps” on the ends of chromosomes that protect them from fraying, much like the end of a shoelace, and an enzyme, called telomerase, maintains their length. Telomeres shorten over time, and the rate at which this occurs can be increased by stress, leading to accelerated aging, cardiovascular disease, cancer, and an impaired immune system. The Telomeres investigation collects crew member blood samples to determine how telomeres and telomerase are affected by space travel.
Salivary Markers: Salivary Markers samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. Maintaining a robust immune system during prolonged spaceflight missions (i.e., to other planets or asteroids) will be important to ensure mission success. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks.

 
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG):  Yui removed the PCG canister from the Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF), installed temperature loggers, and handed the sample to Padalka for packing and return on 42S.  JAXA PCG aims at the growth of crystals of biological macromolecules by the counter-diffusion technique. The main scientific objective of the JAXA PCG experiment is to make high quality protein crystals under microgravity environment. Under microgravity conditions, convection and sedimentation are suppressed. Therefore, diffusion areas are maintained, the density around the crystals decreases, the crystals grow slowly, the capture of impurities and microcrystal decreases, and a crystal will grow well.
 
Capillary Beverage: Yui performed a session of Capillary Beverage using the Tropical Punch drink to observe fluid interface and critical wetting behavior during drinking and draining activities. Microgravity affects the way fluids behave, and as such, crew members must drink from special sealed bags instead of using straws or normal cups. Capillary Effects of Drinking in the Microgravity Environment (Capillary Beverage) studies the process of drinking from specially designed Space Cups that use fluid dynamics to mimic the effect of gravity.
 
HTV Cargo Transfer Status:  Lindgren and Kelly completed about 3 hours of HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today. Cargo specialist estimate the crew will need approximately 12 hours to complete the HTV-5 cargo operations.
 

