
iPad Operating System (iOS) Upgrade:  Today the crew connected the iPad Air 2 to an Space Station Computer (SSC), allowing ground controllers to update the operating system.
Dragon Departure Preparations:  Today the crew completed a computer based training session to review the Dragon departure documentation and a Robotic Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session which included two simulated Dragon release runs.  
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming SpaceX-12 unberth and release, the crew coordinated with ground teams to activate the CUCU System and perform a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. The backup CCP unit was installed and checked out successfully, so the activity to change back to the prime CCP was aborted.  CCP and CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations in the vicinity of ISS.
Lighting Effects: Upon wakeup, the 51S subject provided a sleep log entry, and conducted a series of 3 Cognition tests throughout the day. The subject also completed 3 of 4 urine collections, which are divided within a 24-hour period. The fourth sample will be collected tomorrow morning.  Each sample is stowed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for freezing until their return and analysis. The Lighting Effects experiment hopes to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Gould Tribute Video: Today, a crewmember recorded a self-shooting video to pay tribute to Canadian pianist Glenn Gould. This video message will be part of a tribute concert by the Toronto Symphony Orchestra on September 22, in honor of Canadian pianist Glenn Gould, who would have turned 85 on September 25. Gould represented Canada on the “Golden Record” on board both Voyager 1 and 2. The video will also be promoted on social media.
Spaceborne Computer Installation and Checkout: The crew installed the Spaceborne Computer hardware into side-by-side EXPRESS Rack locker locations, configured the power, data, and thermal connections to the rack, before photographing the configuration and transferring the photos for downlink. Spaceborne Computer intends to run a year-long experiment of high performance commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) computer system on the International Space Station (ISS). During high radiation events, verify if the systems can still operate correctly by lowering their power, and therefore, speed. This research helps scientists identify ways of using software to protect ISS computers without expensive, time-consuming or bulky protective shielding. 
Advanced Research Thermal Passive Exchange (ARTE) Thermal Exchange Setup and Hardware Stow: The crew completed the 2nd experiment run of the ARTE Thermal Exchange investigation. The Thermal Exchange hardware was installed in the MSG work volume, and the data was transferred from the SD card to the SSC for downlink. The hardware was then removed and stowed from the MSG. The ARTE Thermal Exchange investigation is sponsored by the Italian Space Agency (ASI); and studies the performance of a new type of heat pipe, which is a passive, low-weight device used to increase a material’s heat transfer capability. The investigation researches a new technology, called Axially Grooved Heat Pipes, which could be integrated into existing spacecraft, as well as used for future missions.
MagVector: The crew completed closeout and clean-up activities for the 13th experiment run of the MagVector investigation that began last week. The European Space Agency (ESA) MagVector investigation studies how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future International Space Station experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general, the backbone of our technology.
NanoRack Platforms-1 Module Removal: The crew removed NanoRacks Modules 67 and 72 from NanoRacks Platform-1 for return on SpaceX-12.

NanoRack Module 67: NanoRacks-NDC-Ames for Space-Bacteria Testing determines whether bacteria mutate at a different rate in the microgravity environment of space. The experiments extend previous work on virulence in space by exposing different batches of bacteria to toxins known to cause mutations. Automated equipment tests and photographs batches of bacteria contained within different concentrations of toxins so that the observed mutation rates can be compared with those observed from control groups on Earth.
NanoRack Module 72: NanoRacks-CUBERIDER-1 (NanoRacks-CR-1) is an educational module that runs on computer code written by 9th and 10th graders. Students program sensors on NanoRacks-CR-1 to record data on the microgravity environment and conduct tests aboard the station and then send results back to Earth. Through this investigation, students devise their own experiments and experience space science firsthand.

The NanoRack Platform is a multipurpose research facility that supports NanoRacks Modules by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  To prepare for RR-9 Live Animal Return (LAR) activities, the crew will participated in a crew conference they setup and powered on the LAR transporters returning on SpX-12. The RR-9 experiment studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays aboard the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joint, the eyes and the immune system. 
Tangolab-1 Card Cube Removal:  The crew removed two cards from the TangoLab-1 facility and inserted them into the Space Automated Bio-product Lab (SABL). The cards contain one experiment to study genetic mutations in fruit flies and one to study Carbon Dioxide scrubbing in cactus. TangoLab-1 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Polar Sample Transfer from MELFI: The crew transferred samples from MELFI-1 and MELFI-2 to the four returning Polars using -32°C Ice Bricks and a Double Coldbag in preparation for SpaceX-12 descent.

