
Payloads
ELF (Electro-static Levitation Furnace): The crew configured cables to allow ground teams to initiate a software updates to the ELF Z-book. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
LSG (Life Sciences Glovebox): The crew performed the LSG Rear-Wall Filter Exchange and also prepared the LSG laptop for software updates.  LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Confocal Space Microscopy: The crew completed the microscope cell chamber holder install and performed the remaining installation steps for the Confocal Space Microscope setup in the JEM. The Confocal Space Microscope (Confocal Microscope) is a JAXA facility that provides fluorescence images of biological samples aboard the International Space Station. Confocal microscopy uses spatial filtering techniques to eliminate out-of-focus light or glare in specimens whose thickness exceeds the immediate plane of focus. With the Confocal Microscope data can be obtained on the fundamental nature of cellular and tissue structure and functions in real-time.
MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox): The crew prepared the MSG laptop for software updates. The Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Systems
Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL): Today, robotic ground controllers (ROBO) activated the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and are currently in the process of performing a RELL scan of the Radiator Beam Valve Modules (RBVM) of the S1 truss Heat Rejection System (HRS). The RELL is a mass spectrometer “sniffer” that will assist with the investigation into possible External Active Thermal Control System (EATCS) anhydrous ammonia (NH3) leaks. The EATCS coolant loops cool external electrical systems as well as transport heat away from internal water-cooling systems that are required keep critical ISS avionics from overheating.

