
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): The crew switched the DOSIS Mode Switch to Mode 1 for solar quiet period. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices.
Vascular Aging: The crew repeated a Vascular Aging Measurements session that was aborted last week. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Fluid Shifts: The crew completed the last day of Fluid Shifts operations and stowed the hardware. Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage. 
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew Restocked habitats 2 and 3 and cleaned the Access unit. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth. 
NanoRacks Rotational Dynamics (Adidas OS SPIN): The crew performed the inflation of the soccer ball. The investigation Adidas OS Rotation-Induced Characteristics of a Sphere (Adidas OS Spin) examines the behavior of free-flying soccer balls in microgravity. Researchers measure the spin speed, wobble, and spin axis of balls with different shapes and textures and compare the data to Earth-based experiments. Results could improve the understanding of interaction between free-flying objects and their environment.
Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Reviews and Conference: Today the crew performed a review of the procedures necessary to perform the first two of potentially five EVAs to upgrade the P6 truss power channels. This upgrade transitions the ISS energy storage systems from nickel hydrogen batteries to the newly designed lithium ion batteries. Following their procedure reviews, the crew conducted a space-to-ground conference with ground team EVA Specialists.


