ISS On-Orbit Status 09/17/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – Crew off duty.  Underway: Increment 29 (three-person crew).
 
FE-4 Sergei Volkov performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Also at wake-up, CDR Mike Fossum &amp; FE-5 Satoshi Furukawa completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.       [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Afterwards, Fossum, Volkov &amp; Furukawa joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).        ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Sergei completed regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of the TsV2 fan screen in the FGB and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM.  Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.
 
Afterwards, FE-4 inspected the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse and verified proper watering of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules.       [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
Volkov also took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.          [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
At ~3:18am EDT, FE-4 used the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) to conduct a ham radio session with participants of the Domodedovo-2011 International Amateur Radio Operators of Russia Festival (close to 300 participants).
 
At ~4:55am, Volkov conducted a second ham radio session with the Domodedovo-2011 festival.
 
At ~5:25am, Sergei had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
At ~8:45am, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
Shortly before sleeptime, CDR Fossum will close the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment.      [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5).
 

