
34S Soyuz Undock & Landing: Soyuz 34S undocked from the ISS Mini-Research Module (MRM)-2 bringing Commander (CDR) Viogradov, Flight Engineer (FE-2) Misurkin, and FE-3 Cassidy back to earth.  Prior to undocking, the crew performed leak checks on the vestibule, suits, and hatch between the descent module and the habitation module.  The undock command, which initiated the opening of the Soyuz vehicle docking hooks, was issued at 6:34pm (CDT) with physical separation occurring a minute and a half later.  The Soyuz deorbit burn started at 9:05pm (CDT) and Search and Rescue (SAR) forces established voice communication with the crew and obtained visual acquisition of Soyuz on parachutes at 9:46pm (CDT).  Soyuz 34S landing occurred at 9:58pm (CDT) in the nominal region.
Cygnus Orbital-Demonstration (Orb-D1) Pregather: FE-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg started gathering disposal items in preparation for Orb-D1 arrival on 22 September 2013.  The items were temporarily stowed at the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Endcone.
Cupola Robotics Work Station (RWS) Loss of Communication (LOC):  Last evening the C&C Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) lost comm with the (backup) Cupola RWS.  The Cupola RWS is currently powered up and operating nominally. This signature has been seen before and is documented as a known software issue.  Ground teams continue to work to update this software on a future date. Launch Commit Criteria Flight Rules associated with Cygnus Orbital D-1 launch on 17 September require both Lab and Cupola RWSs.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fluids Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) Removal and Replacement (R&R): Cassidy performed an R&R of the FCPA yesterday.  Ground teams successfully checked all valve transitions in the new FCPA overnight. Ground teams successfully initiated a process run today. The On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) failed last week due to a spike in high motor current. Yesterday’s R&R used the last available FCPA spare onboard ISS. However, an additional FCPA is currently manifested on SpaceX-3.

