ISS On-Orbit Status 09/19/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew rest day.
 
  With wakeup this morning at 2:30am EDT, the crew’s wake/sleep cycle has returned to “normal” (sleep – 5:30pm, wakeup – 2:00am.
 
  Upon wakeup, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 DeWinne continued their new week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Nicole’s first, logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  As first task, FE-3 Romanenko started periodic status checks on the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM (Service Module).    [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.] 
 
  The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, CDR Padalka &amp; FE-3 Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9), plus dust filter replacement in the FGB.
 
  At ~9:50am EDT, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  FE-5 De Winne began the first day of his FD120 session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, focusing today on the blood draw.   Dr. Barratt stood ready to assist in the phlebotomy from an arm vein.  Afterwards, Frank began the 24-hour urine collections of the NUTRITION protocol.   [After the phlebotomy, Frank’s samples were first allowed to coagulate in the Repository for 20-30 minutes, then spun in the HRF RC (Human Research Facility/Refrigerated Centrifuge) and finally placed in MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  No thruster activity was allowed during the blood drawing.  The RC was later powered off after a temperature reset to limit wear on the compressor, and cleaned.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  For FE-4 Thirsk, today was the start of his FD120 NUTRITION with Repository 24-hour urine collections, with the usual constraints for tomorrow’s blood draw (foregoing exercising and food intake for 8 hours before the phlebotomy).
 
  For today’s several VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activities, on the crew’s free time, Nicole Stott, Bob Thirsk &amp; Mike Barratt set up the hardware for another BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment) experiment run, then each of them worked through the protocol.     [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity. The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration micro-G conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to micro-G and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts are being presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.]
 
  For a second VolSci activity, Nicole &amp; Bob configured the camcorder, then repeated an earlier EPO (Educational Program Operations) discussion &amp; demo of “Weight vs. Mass”.
 
  As a third VolSci task Thirsk finished uploading software for the IRIS (Images Reversal in Space) application, then performed the visual perception experiment and transferred the data file to an SSC (Station Support Computer).    [IRIS, an experiment in cognitive neuroscience, was designed, developed and tested by ISU (International Space University) students as part of their Master degree curriculum.  Based on a concept by Dr. Gilles Clement, IRIS only requires the use of one ISS laptop computer and one dedicated compact disk including all the software needed for the test.  The experiment complements current space research on the effect of gravity on three-dimensional visual perception. Ground based data were collected on Bob Thirsk at JSC prior to his flight.  The experiment was successfully executed for the first time on the ISS on 7/13/09.  Preliminary results show that there are less perception reversals in space, suggesting that the perception of 3D ambiguous figures is more stable in space than on the ground.  This result confirms that visual perception of ambiguous figures, like other cognitive processes, is less efficient when gravity “gets in the way” on Earth.]
 
  Also as a VolSci activity, Frank De Winne meanwhile conducted the first session with the new exciting WEAR (Wearable Augmented Reality) payload, starting out with setting up the hardware, making connections to the freshly charged ESA multipurpose laptop, configuring the Canon G1 camera and conducting a speech recognition training session.  Frank then spent about 2.5 hrs to perform a standard maintenance procedure (Condensate Water Separator Assembly Desiccant Inspection) using WEAR hardware.  For evaluation by the ground, his user feedback was to be reported on an uplinked questionnaire.     [The WEAR system is a demonstrator to assist astronauts in performing tasks onboard the ISS.  Comprising a chest plate and a headset with microphone, headphone, motion sensor and camera, all connected to the laptop running the application software including speech recognition, WEAR allows crewmembers to consult procedures and manuals hands-free, with relevant information for the assigned task being displayed on a partially see-through screen before the astronaut’s eyes.  The astronaut controls the system via voice commands.  Background: Augmented reality (AR) is a term for a live direct or indirect view of a physical real-world environment whose elements are merged with-, or augmented by virtual computer-generated imagery, thus creating a “mixed reality”.  The augmentation is conventionally in real-time and in semantic context with environmental elements, like for example sports scores on TV during a match.  With the help of advanced AR technology (e.g. adding computer vision and object recognition) the information about the surrounding real world of the user becomes interactive and digitally usable.  Artificial information about the environment and the objects in it can be stored and retrieved as an information layer on top of the real world view.]
 
  CDR Padalka completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Gennady also checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5) and ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5).  For Gennady, it was Day 1 of working out on TVIS (2 hrs), Day 4 for Roman.
  
  Later, Bob Thirsk transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
  
 Conjunction Alert:   Additional tracking of Object 35438 has significantly decreased the uncertainty of the conjunction, and the probability of collision was determined with high confidence to be well below the “yellow” threshold level.  The DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) was therefore cancelled this morning at 5:10am EDT.
 
 
