
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew completed Day 4 of Rodent Research operations. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth.
Ring Sheared Drop: The crew completed operations overview and setup of the Ring Sheared Drop operations. The investigation uses microgravity to examine the formation and flow of amyloids in the absence of surface tension and other complications created by the solid walls of a container. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues, amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Life Support Rack (LSR): The crew exchanged the three Hydrogen sensors located on the Oxygen Generation Drawer. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR will operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future exploration missions.
Node 1 (N1) Preparation for Slime in Space Experiment: The crew installed covers on equipment in N1 in preparation for the Slime in Space experiment next week. The portable breathing apparatus ports, vacuum access port, hatch manual pressure equalization valves, and hatch windows were covered.
Adlink Mini PC: Two Adlink Mini PCs were set up in Node 3 in preparation for the next two Arcturus technology demonstrations, Urine Transfer System (UTS) and Toilet Data System (TDS). Until UTS and TDS come online, one Adlink will be powered off and one will remain running “Tea” to gain hardware shelf life and demonstrate Arcturus telemetry/commanding capability.

