
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-1:  Today Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg mixed a sample in the 9th of 10 wells of the ACE-M-1 experiment in the Fluids Integrated Rack facility.  ACE-M-1 is the first in a series of microscopic imaging investigations of materials which contain small colloidal particles which remain evenly dispersed and distributed within the material. Colloidal gels define the microstructure of materials, including many consumer products.  When the structures created in commercial colloidal gel products can no longer support the gravitational stresses (e.g. buoyancy) on the structures, they collapse.  This often determines the shelf life of the product. This investigation takes advantage of the unique environment onboard the ISS to separate the effects induced by Earth’s gravity to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within these colloidal materials.
Ocular Health (OH): FE-5 Parmitano and Nyberg started a series of activities to be performed in the next three days in support of the Ocular Health payload.  This will complete their flight day 120 session and is their fifth of six planned sessions.  Today they measured blood pressure and vital signs and performed tonometry measurements, with each alternating as a Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and as a subject. The vision test to be performed with medical ground support was postponed to tomorrow due to a laptop resolution issue experienced today.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Soyuz On-Board Training (OBT):  Commander (CDR) Yurchikhin and Parmitano participated in a Soyuz Emergency Descent OBT session. The training was a review of descent procedures with updated parameters in response to 36S software configuration.
CYGNUS Offset Grapple #2 On-Board Training (OBT):  Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) in Hot Backup Configuration and the ISS Crew (Nyberg and Parmitano) maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into and out of the grapple envelope of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF).  They repeated this five times and then started a final maneuver of SSRMS Latching End Effector (LEE)-A into the grapple envelope of the PMM FRGF, during which the Robotics Ground Controllers safed the SSRMS.  The ISS Crew switched control of the SSRMS from the Main (Cupola) Robotic Workstation (RWS) to the Hot Backup (LAB) RWS and backed the SSRMS away from the PMM FRGF to the PMM High Hover position.  This was the second of two SSRMS practice sessions to help prepare the ISS Crew for capturing the Cygnus spacecraft on 22 September 2013.  After the completion of the grapple practice, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to the Cygnus park position.

