
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: 

Salivary Markers: Yui collected saliva and urine samples in support of his FD 90 Salivary Markers and inserted them into MELFI.  Salivary Markers samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. Maintaining a robust immune system during prolonged spaceflight missions (i.e., to other planets or asteroids) will be important to ensure mission success. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks.

 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Slosh:  Kelly performed the third SPHERES Slosh session of Increment 43/44.  With assistance from ground teams, Kelly followed the uplinked test plan and worked through eight different objectives.  Lindgren setup and recorded the sessions using both the IMAX and 3DA1 Cameras.  The SPHERES-Slosh investigation uses small robotic satellites to examine how liquids move around inside containers in microgravity. A water bottle’s contents slosh around differently in space than on Earth, but the physics of liquid motion in microgravity are not well understood, which affects computer simulations of liquid rocket fuel behavior. Middle school and high school students control the SPHERES to study how liquids behave inside containers in space, which increases the safety and efficiency of future rockets.
 
Ryutai Reconfiguration: Yui reconfigured the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) within the Ryutai rack in preparation for the next session of Soret Facet scheduled for Increment 45.  The Soret effect in fluids is a thermodynamic phenomenon in which different particles respond in different ways to varying temperatures. The effect, studied by the Swiss chemist Charles Soret, has been difficult to examine in detail on Earth because of gravity. The Study on Soret effect (thermal diffusion process) for the mixed solution by the in-situ observation technique facilitated at SCOF (Soret-Facet) is the first investigation to verify Soret conditions in steady and changing conditions, and to compare the Soret effect in microgravity with results on the ground, an important measurement for calibrating future investigations.
 
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Anomaly:  Yesterday evening, the Node 3 CDRA pump experienced an anomaly at the beginning of segment 2 during Half Cycle 2. This anomaly had been seen before in February of this year. Ground team’s power cycled the Pump/Fan Motor Controller (PFMC) in order to recover from the problem. At this time Node 3 and Lab CDRAs are operating nominally and CO2 levels are within acceptable limits.
 
ESA Short Duration Mission
Muscle Atrophy Research and Exercise System (MARES): Commissioning Day#2 is complete and the hardware has been restowed. The team has experienced issues with

LAN cable connectivity between EPM laptop and MARES Main Box
End stop over‐travel detection during the use of PEMS and EMG.

MARES is a physiological research facility that will be used to carry out research on musculoskeletal, biomechanical, and neuromuscular human physiology. The Commissioning Part#2 is the last step in this research rack check‐out activities. Its main goal is the performance of an integrated man‐in‐the‐loop technical protocol which characterizes all MARES subsystems and associated auxiliary measurement devices (ultrasound, electrical muscle stimulation and electromyogram).
 
MELONDAU: yesterday DEMES tasting session#5 was completed nominally, session #6 (and final session) was completed earlier today.  Current status of MCA/AQM measurements:
‐ MCA measurements have been received by BIOTESC for GMT 248 to 250, and GMT 251 files are pending.
‐ AQM: confirmed that we have NO measurements for either for GMT 248 or 249. GMT 250, some files were acquired with AQM in speed mode (rather than autorun mode). GMT 251, the same speed mode was used.
Long‐distance and long‐term human space travel will only be possible with adequate life support systems in place, allowing extensive recycling of water and the in situ production of oxygen and food, with closed regenerative systems the most ideal way of reducing launch mass and costs. MELONDAU is a significant precursor flight experiment which will verify the recovery of biological processes of selected micro‐organisms, test a microfluid system essential for the overall monitoring and control of a closed regenerative life support system, and verify the acceptability of snacks composed of Micro‐Ecological Life Support System Alternative (MELiSSA) ingredients. This is a first step to enable the successful deployment of ESA’s MELiSSA system in space in the future.
 
MOBI‐PV: yesterday, Mogensen unstowed the MOBI-PV equipment. A missing USB adapter cable was found later in the day, and all the planned MOBI‐PV activities (i.e. smartphones battery charging) could be completed.  The current ISS laptop‐based crew information system has certain drawbacks with respect to operator mobility and user interface options. The mobiPV experiment will demonstrate new technologies and operations concepts for ISS crew procedure execution, both for onboard crew, and ground teams, offering wireless operation, voice navigation and real time (over the shoulder) video streaming of workplace activities and synchronized in‐flight/on ground procedure execution. The mobiPV system could be deployed for future crew procedures and contingency operations with a potential to significantly shorten anomaly processing and resolution.
 
EPO IrISS: Mogensen completed three EPO scripts from the Cupola.  The need for education in an ever‐increasing knowledge based society is without question and education forms a fundamental part of the mandate of the European Space Agency (ESA). The EPO IrISS set of education activities aims to introduce the concept of microgravity and human spaceflight to European children and students ranging from primary to tertiary level education. The activities related to this project are intended to stimulate the curiosity of students and to motivate them towards STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) subjects as well as to bring awareness to the younger generation of the importance of the ISS as a testing bed for future exploration activities in space.
 
ENDOTHELIAL CELLS: KUBIK FM5 temperature is kept at +6°C until packing for return tomorrow.  Human subjects and experimental animal models returning from space have shown muscle‐skeletal and cardiovascular problems accredited to injury of the endothelium: the system of cells lining the inner surface of all blood vessels. This project aims at understanding the reaction of cultured endothelial cells to spaceflight through cellular and genetic analysis.
 
 

