
Energy: Wiseman and Gerst continued with Day 10 of the Energy investigation.  Gerst continued taking urine samples and eating a special diet for the Energy investigation. Wiseman also collected urine samples as the control subject. Energy measures change in energy balance in crewmembers following long term space flight. Energy also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge of energy requirements is of a great importance to ensure health, good performance and the overall success of a mission, and also contributes to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Rope Removed & Replaced (R&R): Today, Gerst R&R’d the ARED exercise rope as part of nominal maintenance. The rope is of a new design with a much longer expected lifespan (618 days vs. 80 days).
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Remove and Replace (R&R): Wiseman removed a full recycle tank from the Water Recovery System (WRS) Rack 2 and installed an empty replacement. In addition, Wiseman also replaced the Brine Filter during this activity.
SpaceX-4 (SpX-4) Preparations: Gerst and Wiseman performed Dragon Robot 2 On-Board Training (OBT) session. The purpose of this session was to practice off nominal rendezvous scenarios. SpX-4 berthing is scheduled for September 22, 2014.
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout: In preparation for the upcoming SpX-4 mission, Gerst worked with ground teams in order to activate the CUCU System and performed a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during rendezvous operations.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers performed a functional checkout of the Robot Micro Conical Tools (RMCT) and Backup Drive Units (BDU). This was the first of two days for the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) RMCT/BDU Checkouts.  MSS performance was nominal. The checkout activities will continue this evening.

