
Payloads
CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility): The crew replaced the CO2 sensor on the 1G CBEF hardware. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew stowed the Rodent Habitat-4. Mighty Mice in Space: Preclinical Evaluation of a Broad Spectrum Myostatin Inhibitor to Prevent Muscle and Bone Loss Due to Disuse uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the myostatin (MSTN) and activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
FLUIDICS (Fluid Dynamics in Space): The crew performed two additional science runs, then performed closeout steps to de-install the FLUIDICS hardware. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
PBRE-2 (Packed Bed Reactor Experiment-2): The crew swapped out the harddrives in the PBRE unit as the Disk was running of out space from data collection. The full disk was prepared for return. The PBRE-2 investigates the forces acting on and created by a gas and a liquid flowing simultaneously through a column filled with glass spheres in microgravity. Known as two-phase flow, this side-by-side movement of a gas and liquid is used in a variety of space-based systems and equipment. Results could help improve the design of future mass and heat transfer equipment used in space.
Rueben Service Pack Deployment: This Service Pack provides updates for the following: Network Attached Storage (NAS): Software Loads & Puppet Content, all Virtual Machines (VM), and the following physical machines: SSC Client, MedOps, and Gigastor. The Service Pack deployment procedures were executed yesterday. Some residual cleanup is in work.
Systems
Airlock Control and Display Unit (ACDU) Cable Replacement: The crew reconfigured ACDU Remoter Controller in preparation for Valve Box Remote Controller installation. 
Rodent Research Locker Preparations:  The crew prepared a Single Stowage Locker which will be used to pack Rodent Research hardware returning on SpX.

