
38 Soyuz (38S) Undock and Landing: Expedition 40 Commander (CDR) Swanson, Flight Engineer (FE)-1 Skvortsov, and FE-2 Artemyev undocked from the ISS today at 6:01 p.m. CDT and landed in Kazakhstan at 9:23 p.m CDT. The crew’s return completes 167 days in space. 38S undock began Expedition 41 under the command of Maxim Suraev.  Suraev, FE-5 Wiseman and FE-6 Gerst will operate the ISS as a three-person crew until the arrival of three additional crew members on September 26th.
Capillary Channel Flow (CCF) Hardware Stow: Wiseman removed the CCF hardware from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and stowed it. CCF has been running without crew interaction from the ground for approximately four weeks. Capillary flow is the natural wicking of fluid between narrow channels in the opposite direction of gravity. Tree roots are one example of a capillary system, drawing water up from the soil. By increasing understanding of capillary flow in the absence of gravity, the CCF experiment helps scientists find new ways to move liquids in space. Capillary systems do not require pumps or moving parts, which reduces their cost, weight, and complexity.
Salivary Markers: Swanson collected a blood sample for the Salivary Markers investigation which was returned ambient on the Soyuz. He also collected saliva samples. These samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. Maintaining a robust immune system during prolonged spaceflight missions (i.e., to other planets or asteroids) will be important to ensure mission success. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks.
Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF) Resistance Measurement and Cartridge Removal: Gerst removed an Alloy Semiconductor cartridge for return on a future flight. He also completed a GHF unit insulation resistance measurement in preparation for Alloy Semiconductor #3. The Alloy Semiconductor investigation aims to develop a clear understanding of how semiconductor materials grow and crystallize in microgravity. The materials studied are also known to be useful as devices which convert heat into electricity (thermoelectrics). These studies may ultimately shed light on how higher quality crystals may be derived from other materials or incorporated into other devices such as solar cells.

