
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Launch Delay: Due to an unfavorable weather forecast for tomorrow’s HTV launch attempt, Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) has delayed the HTV-7 launch to Friday, 14 September at 20:59 GMT (15:59 CT) with capture on Tuesday, 18 September at 11:25 GMT (06:25 CT).
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7): The crew completed the first of two days of rodent operations for the RR-7 investigation. Crewmembers will perform bone densitometer scans, blood draws, fecal pellet collections, and sampling operations. The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to affect the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions.
Time Perception in Microgravity: The crew perform a session for ESA’s Time Perception in Microgravity investigation today. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks.  Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): Today a USOS crewmember retrieved eight bubble detectors from deployed locations inside the Japanese module (JPM1D5) and hand them over to a Russian crewmember, who will process all the detectors in the Bubble Reader.
Food Acceptability: Crewmember performed the questionnaire. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results are used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew removed and replaced the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter. After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational. 
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: Serena participated in a live Educational PAO event with Poudre High School in Fort Collins, Colorado.  A graduate from Poudre, Serena spoke with 100 to 300 students currently enrolled in various levels of physical science classes.  Today’s event will be incorporated into a culminating activity centered around science and experimental design in space.
Node 3 Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Activation and Data Gather: Yesterday afternoon, ground controllers powered up the Node 3 MCA to checkout the newly installed ORU 2 (S/N F0007) that was installed on 27 August. Controllers gathered data for approximately one hour and performed a Full Calibration while rapid sampling air from Node 1; teams are currently reviewing and interpreting the data collected during yesterday’s testing and this morning’s Zero Calibration.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Li-Ion Battery Data Logging: The crew terminated a second charging Autocycle of two EMU Long Life Batteries-2 (LLB-2s) with data logging. By analyzing data from these two Autocycles, ground experts will be able to better understand the charge and discharge capacities of these new and improved LLB-2 batteries as well as compare charging system performance between the on-orbit and ground based systems. Data gathered during the first Autocycle show that the first set of LLB-2 batteries charged last week are a GO for EVA and charged as expected.

