
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Actiwatch units were hooked up to the HRF-1 rack for charging and data downlink. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until it is downloaded for analysis.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device – Kinematics (ARED-K): The ARED-K Multi-Use Bracket restraints were retrieved and the laptop battery was swapped and charged. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The CIR Input/Output Processor was rebooted using different hard drive configurations. Unfortunately, the troubleshooting steps to recover the processor were not successful. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
JAXA Media Take: JAXA Media Take 1 was performed. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Public Relations Activity (JAXA EPO) includes conducting cultural activities such as writing reports about and filming video of activities aboard the ISS. These tools can help inform the public about the importance of the ISS, the JEM, and human spaceflight.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): Water samples from the electrolysis water tank were taken. The JWRS demonstrates that potable water can be generated from urine. In the past, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. However, for long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Sleep in Orbit: Crew Sleep in Orbit data recording was completed for pre-sleep and post-sleep sessions, and the EveryWear questionnaire was completed. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep In Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG (electroencephalography) based sleep monitoring.
Vascular Aging: Glucose measurement protocols were completed. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Z-Camera Virtual Reality (ZCAM VR) Livestream: ZCAM VR Livestream hardware was gathered per stowage note for upcoming operations. Felix & Paul Studios (FPS) ZCAM VR Livestream demonstrates livestreaming of 360-degree virtual reality video from the ISS to audiences on the ground. The project uses hardware that recorded 4K immersive video and audio for “Space Explorers: ISS Experience,” adding new software capabilities and an expanded ground segment. The VR livestream provides people on the ground the opportunity to immerse themselves in the world of crew members on the orbiting lab.
Systems:
European Drawer Rack 2 (EDR2) Operations: Yesterday, the crew transferred the EDR2 rack from its temporary location at NOD2D2 to COL1A2 in preparation for activation and checkout for upcoming science on NG-20. Today, the crew performed the umbilical mate of EDR2 to COL1A2, the laptop virtual machine setup and activation, file copy and terminal preparation, IP address reconfiguration, and relabeling of the stowage sectors. An EDR2 file transfer activity was unable to be completed due to unexpected troubleshooting.
ISS Crew Arrival Preparations: The crew prepared for the upcoming 70S arrival. On Friday, September 15th at 10:44 AM CDT, 70S is scheduled to launch from the Baikonur Cosmodrome carrying NASA astronaut Loral O’Hara and Roscosmos cosmonauts Oleg Kononenko and Nikolai Chub. Docking to the MRM1 docking port is planned to occur later that day at 2:09 PM CDT after completing a 2-orbit rendezvous.
Cygnus Power Down Converter (PDC) Enable: Today, the ground team enabled the Cygnus PDCs that supply ISS power to Fault Isolation Zone 3 (FIZ3). The PDCs are now considered as recovered. On August 9th, NG-19 experienced a disabling of both PDCs on FIZ3. This malfunction did not affect the functionality of FIZ3 and the vehicle was switched to onboard solar array and battery power.
