
Plant Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Regulation Harvest: FE-6 removed the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Seed Cassettes from EMCS Rotors A and B stowed them in an EMCS Cold Stowage Pouch.  The removed cassettes were then stowed in MELFI.  New Experiment Container (EC) Seed Cassettes were installed into the EMCS and will be grown for approximately one week.  Compared to plants grown on the ground, plants grown in space experience broad changes in gene expression, which affects how they grow and develop.  The Plant RNA Regulation investigation studies the first steps of gene expression involved in development of roots and shoots. Scientists expect to find new molecules that play a role in how plants adapt and respond to the microgravity environment of space, which provides new insight into growing plants for food and oxygen supplies on long-duration missions.
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) Return:  FE-5 extended the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table so that ground controllers could install the MPEP following the successful release of the eight Planet Lab DoveSats.  The crew then retracted the table back into the JEMAL.  The JEMAL will be repressurized next Tuesday, and the NRCSD will be removed next Friday. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Yearly and 6-Monthly Maintenance:  The crew performed a thorough inspection of T2’s drive shaft, pulley teeth, motor, motor carriage bolts, motor belt, mounting screws, lateral belts, and clean the bearing housing.  All observations were photo documented and downlinked to the ground for analysis.  Once the maintenance is completed, T2 was powered up and a checkout was performed.  T2 was cleared for crew use.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Training: FE-5 completed a refresher course on some of the equipment and procedures taught in the CMO classes covering crew illness and/or injury. Lessons include text, pictures and video detailing previously learned medical procedures and hardware. 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) High Definition (HD) Encoder Connectivity – On September 13, the previous AVN 443 HD Encoder in the JEM Module (S/N 1006) was inadvertently misconfigured with the wrong IP address. A spare unit (S/N 1009) was installed but its IP address was incorrect. Ground teams developed a procedure to reset the IP address via the JSL which was successfully executed today. 

