ISS On-Orbit Status 09/19/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway:  Week 1 of Increment 29 (three-person crew).
 
FE-4 Sergei Volkov performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection.   Sergei also conducted the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
At wake-up, CDR Mike Fossum &amp; FE-5 Satoshi Furukawa completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.       [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
First thing in post-sleep, Furukawa &amp; Fossum undertook their 15<sup>th</sup> weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures session, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.  The required ~10h fast period started for them last night.  This is usually done on Mondays.        [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.] 
 
Volkov performed periodic maintenance on the Russian laptop computers, inspecting &amp; removing dust from vents &amp; connectors plus cleaning keyboards, displays and cases.      [Included in the service were the RSS1, RSS2, RSK1, RSK2, RSE1 and RSE-Med laptops, supported by ground specialist tagup.] 
 
Afterwards, FE-4 set up two new T61p Lenovo laptops from stowage and prepared them as CSL (Crew Support LAN) clients 5 &amp; 6 in the SM, locating CSL5 in the port cabin and CSL6 in the starboard cabin near the crew quarters, connecting them to the Ethernet and then turning them on for a checkout.
 
Later, Sergei completed the periodic (every Monday) verification of the automatic IUS AntiVirus program on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2, as well as the manual update on the non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.       [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the recent SSCV4 software update.  Before the recent (8/8) installation of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
After donning their Sokol flight suits, Volkov, Fossum &amp; Furukawa conducted the periodic 20-min. fit check of their Kazbek couches, the three contoured shock absorbing seats in their Soyuz TMA-02M/27S spacecraft’s SA Descent Module.       [For the fit check, crewmembers remove their flightsuit cabin apparel and don Sokol KV-2 suit &amp; comm caps, get into in their seats and assess the degree of comfort and uniform body support provided by the seat liner.  Using a ruler, they then measure the gap between the top of the head and the top edge of the structure facing the head crown.  The results are reported to TsUP.  Kazbek-UM couches are designed to withstand g-loads during launch and orbital insertion as well as during reentry and brake-rocket-assisted landing.  Each seat has two positions: cocked (armed) and noncocked. In cocked position, they are raised to allow the shock absorbers to function during touchdown.  The fit check assures that the crewmembers, whose bodies gain in length during longer-term stay in zero-G, will still be adequately protected by the seat liners for their touchdown in Kazakhstan, either emergency or regular return.]
 
Furukawa conducted the 2<sup>nd</sup> JAXA EPO (Educational Payloads Operation) session with the “Doctor in Space” program, demonstrating a number of Aerospace Medicine issues in front of the CANON G1 video camcorder.  Afterwards, G1 was turned off and the footage downlinked to the ground.       [In the educational session, Satoshi provided explanations about medical care and health management in space, as well as the changes which the human body will undergo in response to environmental changes.  Issues included Radiation, Bone Mass Loss, Nutrition Science, In-orbit Experiments (MYCO, Bio-Rhythms &amp; Hair), Spatial Recognition &amp; Attitude Control, etc.]
 
CDR Fossum powered down the UOP (Utility Outlet Panel) of the RWS DCP (Robotic Workstation / Display &amp; Control Panel) in the Node-3 Cupola.
 
The CDR also configured the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware including MBS (Mixing Bag System) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), and then spent 3-4 hrs conducting his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max assessment, integrated with Thermolab.  Afterwards, Mike powered down, cleaned up and partially stowed the equipment, then downloaded the data to a PCS laptop.  During his CEVIS run, the display locked up, causing loss of VO<sub>2</sub>max run data.  A replacement run will be planned later in the week.      [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
Afterwards, Mike transferred all food items and the tray assembly from MERLIN-2 (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator 2) in ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) to MERLIN-1.  He also removed the desiccant packs and left the front door open for a 24-hr dryout.     [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]
 
The CDR opened the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, so ground images could be captured today by ground commanding.  At sleeptime tonight, Mike will close the shutters again.      [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
Fossum also started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.      [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
With the FSS Photospectrograph battery freshly charged overnight, Sergei used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 during a one-hour segment, taking pictures of targets along the flight track, including the Mediterranean, Sardinia, Etna Volcano, and Libya.  Etna, which showed activity with plumes as recent as 9/8, was of top priority.     [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
Volkov also completed a 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3 photos with Nikkor 80-200 mm lens and the SONY HD video camcorder on oceanic color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,
 
Satoshi reviewed procedures and an OBT (Onboard Training) video for tomorrow’s planned CSI-05 (CGBA Science Insert-05) Plant Habitat installation in the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5).       [The CSI-05 plant experiment focuses on characteristics associated with successful germination in space.  On Earth, the roots and shoots of a young plant respond to light, gravity and mechanical stimuli.  However, because of the ever presence of gravity on Earth, it is difficult to determine which of these three factors impact roots and shoots the most.  This is important to know for crops grown in zero-G.  This educational experiment utilizes the seed from the Brassica plant (mustard family).  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.  CSI-05 is also conducted in the classroom in near real-time, or it can be utilized by teachers at any point during the school year after the space flight experiments are completed.  Images and data from the space-based experiments are downlinked to the BioServe POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center) on a daily basis while the experiment is active.  Visual data will then be uplinked to the BioEd Online website.  The seed germination curriculum materials are developed by the Baylor College of Medicine Center for Education Outreach. This program is sponsored by the National Space Biomedical Research Institute and the NASA ISS National Lab Education Office.]
 
FE-5 also relocated the SAMS (Space Acceleration Measurement System) cable assembly from the ER2 lower control panel to the RTS (Remote Triaxial Sensors) drawer D1 in ER1 for later support of the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox).
 
Servicing the MSG CCF (Capillary Channel Flow) experiment, Mike Fossum adjusted focus settings of the MSG video cameras and ensured that apertures were fully open and Camera 2 is perpendicular to the front face of the CCF experiment unit.
 
FE-4 Volkov inspected the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, verified proper watering of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules and took the weekly documentary photography of setup &amp; activities.       [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
Volkov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, FE-4 also completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Later, Sergei broke out and set up the equipment for another session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, scheduled tomorrow for himself &amp; Furukawa.       [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s /special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
Fossum worked on the FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory) rack, first attaching a newly printed sign saying "DO NOT TOUCH. EXPERIMENT RUNNING", then taking documentary photos of the fastener heads used by Satoshi on 9/6 for affixing the access panel of the FSL VMU (Video Management Unit) after swapping HDDs (Hard Disk Drives).
 
Shortly before sleeptime, Satoshi will begin his 2<sup>nd</sup> experiment with the onboard DK (Diagnostic Kit), donning the electroencephalograph equipment for monitoring his brainwaves during sleep.
 
At ~11:45am EDT, Sergei Volkov supported two future Russian PAO TV events, extending pre-recorded greetings to (1) the participants of the 8<sup>th</sup> International INFO-2011 Workshop Conference “Information and Communication Technology-Based Innovations”, to be held 10/1-10/10 in Sochi, and (2) to the RAKETAFEST 2011 Model Rocket Festival, held 10/1-10/10 in Moscow.      [(1) This year the INFO-2011 conference is dedicated to the 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary of Y. A. Gagarin’s space flight, and one of the topics for discussion is “Building small spacecrafts for near-Earth physical exploration”.  Leading scientists from Russia and abroad will take part in this conference.  The conference organizers are: MGTU (N. E. Bauman Moscow State Technical University), Prof. N. E. Zhukovsky/Y. Gagarin Air Force Academy, Moscow State University of Radio Engineering, Electronics, and Automation, and others (over 20 organizations).  (2) The Rocket Festival is an ongoing RAKETAFEST project.  The idea of Model Rocket Festival started back in 2003, and in 2009 the project took shape as “socially significant RAKETAFEST Rocket Model Festival” project.  RAKETAFEST became a logical continuation of a long-standing public relation and outreach effort for space exploration including model rockets.  The goal of this festival is to promote patriotism among children and youth by attracting attention to national achievements in space science and technology, to facilitate participation of children and youth in imaginative work applied to scientific and technical fields.  This year the festival is dedicated to the 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary of Y. A. Gagarin’s space flight celebration.]
 
At ~2:05pm, the crew was scheduled for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Peggy Whitson), via S-band S/G-2 audio &amp; phone patch.
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, Mike turns on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and starts the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Mike will turn MPC off again.       [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
A task listed for Sergei on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today continues to be the preparation &amp; downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5).
 
JAXA Marangoni Experiment:    Starting tonight at 5:30pm (crew sleeptime) and running trough 2:00am tomorrow morning, the first Marangoni experiment will be running in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  Subsequent sessions will be conducted through late November 2011.  The experiment is performed during crew sleep (since the liquid bridge to be formed is sensitive to g-jitter), 4 days/week at most and 24 runs in total.  After the liquid bridge has been formed, the ground will impose a temperature gradient on it to produce Marangoni convection.   The crew, which will be informed regularly, has been asked to avoid any disturbances in this timeframe.  Even disturbances in other modules can be transmitted and cause the liquid bridge in JPM to break up, resulting in science loss.
 
FGB Refueling:   Starting at ~9:30pm, propellants will be transferred by ground command from the Progress 42P tanks via the DC1 Docking Compartment to the FGB long high-pressure fuel and oxidizer tanks (BVDG for the UDMH fuel, &amp; BVDO for the NTO oxidizer).
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

