ISS On-Orbit Status 09/10/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Saturday – Crew off-duty day.  
 
First thing in post-sleep prior to eating, drinking &amp; brushing teeth, FE-3 Garan, FE-5 Furukawa &amp; FE-6 Fossum performed another liquid saliva collection of their first INTEGRATED IMMUNE protocol (Day 2).  The collections are made every other day for six days.       [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmembers soak a piece of cotton inside their mouths and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]
 
Also at wake-up, Garan, Furukawa &amp; Fossum completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Afterwards, Mike Fossum, Ron Garan &amp; Satoshi Furukawa joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  As part of today’s Uborka, Furukawa took documentary photographs of the RGSH AORG (Return Grid Sensor Housing add-on screens) at COL D0 before and after going over them with the vacuum cleaner (to be compared with pictures taken during previous cleaning to establish the quantity of debris captured during the week).        ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
Andrey Borisenko &amp; Alexandr Samokutyayev completed their 4<sup>th</sup> preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test run (of 5) with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for their return to gravity on 9/16 with Soyuz 26S (along with Ron Garan).  They conducted the ODNT exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.  Each crewmember took turns as Subject and assisting CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Andrey was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 5:25am-5:44am, Sasha at 7:00am-7:16am EDT.     [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmember’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by one cycle of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -25, -35, -40 and -45 mmHg for five min. each, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure and the REG SHKO Rheoencephalogram Biomed Cap.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
Furukawa opened the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, so ground images can be captured today by ground commanding.       [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
Mike Fossum installed the three PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab at S3 to protect its ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) from external loading (dynamic disturbances) over the weekend.
 
FE-4 Volkov completed the daily inspection of the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse and ensured proper watering of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules.      [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
Sasha worked on the RSK1 &amp; RSS2 laptops, copying accumulated science data files from the RSK1 return HDD (hard disk drive) to the RSS2 for downlink via the high-speed RSPI Radio Data Transmission System on the network. 
 
Later, FE-1 was to initiate, on Go-ahead from TsUP-Moscow, another refresh of the ISS interior with an O<sub>2 </sub>repress from Progress M-10M/42P (#410) tankage, with the Russian Elektron oxygen generator currently off.
 
In the Lab (loc. O4), Mike serviced the unpowered GLACIER-2 (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator 2) freezer in ER-6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) by placing desiccant packages in it.
 
Ron used the two hand-held CSA-O<sub>2</sub> (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) units, #1043 &amp; #1048, to take the periodic oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM &amp; COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) at mid-module.      [COL: 21.1% (#1043); 21.1% (#1048). SM: 21.1% (#1043); 21.2% (#1048).]
 
Sergei performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Borisenko &amp; Garan joined up for a manual control test of the SM PSS Caution &amp; Warning (C&amp;W) Panel, with Andrey depressing the Test button at a specific time and Ron listening for an audio signal in the USOS (US Orbital Segment), repeating the test three times.       [The crew has reported numerous instances of a spurious C&amp;W tone early in the morning, for which the daily PSS test is being suspected as the cause.  A dedicated series of SM tests is now being performed with the crew listening for the tone in their CQs (Crew Quarters).]
 
Satoshi &amp; Mike filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
At ~7:45am EDT, the crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~10:55am, Ron Garan had his standard weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
At ~2:00pm, Mike Fossum conducted his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-1, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [Mike Fossum is currently following a special experimental “SPRINT” protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5hrs per day regime and introduces special daily sessions.  No exercise will be timelined for Friday.  If any day is not completed, Mike picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
Jobs listed for Andrey, Sergei &amp; Sasha today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>Another ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on the Caspian Sea (polluting spills on the water surface), Aral Sea, the glaciers of the Pamir range, Bear Lake, Lake Sarez, Kerch Strait, Krasnaya Polyana, Kolka glacier, River Terek, and the Allalin glacier,
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, 
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~15-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3X photos with Nikkor 80-200 mm lens and the SONY HD video camcorder to record color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, and
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>Preparing &amp; downlinking more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 

