
Payloads
MUSES (Multiple User System for Earth Sensing Facility): The crew performed the MUSES Server Vent Cleaning. MUSES is an Earth imaging platform, as part of the company’s new commercial space-based digital imaging business. MUSES hosts earth-viewing instruments (Hosted Payloads), such as high-resolution digital cameras, hyperspectral imagers, and provides precision pointing and other accommodations. It hosts up to four instruments at the same time, and offers the ability to change, upgrade, and robotically service those instruments. It also provides a test bed for technology demonstration and technology maturation by providing long-term access to the space environment on the ISS.
Systems
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Valve Box Remote Controller (VB-RC): Today, the crew completed the installation of the JEMAL VB-RC. The newly installed VB-RC allows full-control of the JEMAL pressures by the JAXA ground control team. This new capability frees up crewmembers to spend more time performing other critical tasks during JEM Airlock operations.
Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL) Stow:  Yesterday, robotics ground controllers (ROBO) performed RELL scans of the S1 truss Radiator Beam Valve Modules (RBVM) of the External Active Thermal Control System (EATCS) Heat Rejection System (HRS). Today, ROBO activated the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and stowed the RELL back into the Robotic Tool Stowage (RiTS) platform. The RELL is a mass spectrometer “sniffer” and is being used to assist with an investigation into possible EATCS anhydrous ammonia (NH3) leaks. The EATCS loops cool external electrical systems as well as transport heat away from internal water-cooling systems that are required to keep critical ISS systems from overheating.
Crew Quarters (CQ) 9 Volt Battery Changeout:  Today, the crew replaced the 9-volt batteries in all four CQs. This maintenance is required every twelve months. These batteries are used to power the Caution & Warning (C&W) alarm speakers and the Egress Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs). 

