
NanoRacks Module-82 (Palm Tree Growth): The crew removed the Module 82 from the NanoRacks Frame-3 and took photographs of the Palm Seed Flask, then temporarily stowed in an ambient temperature location. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) investigation examines germination of palm tree seeds to determine the best conditions for generating tissue samples for research. A process for growing healthy plant tissue in microgravity could be adapted for testing other indigenous plants of scientific, commercial or educational interest in the UAE. The investigation also observes and documents root growth in microgravity for educational purposes.
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew performed Day 3 of Rodent Research Operations. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth. 
BioLab (Biological Experiment Laboratory): The crew removed the Life Support Module 4 from the BioLab facility and packed it for return to ground. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Starboard Solar Array Wing (SAW) Imagery: The crew photographed the inboard, starboard SAWs 1A and 3A and their masts. Images for the outboard, starboard arrays 1B and 3B, were previously photographed on August 14, 2019. The photos have been downlinked for team review.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Shutdown: Yesterday the UPA experienced a high flow rate fault during nominal UPA processing. Data suggests that during Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) fills, gas was introduced into the system. Review of telemetry from an overnight process cycle indicated that most of the gas has been removed, but not eliminated. Ground teams continued the process cycle to reduce the WSTA quantity to 5% in an attempt to eliminate remaining gas from the system. The process cycle completed with no additional faults. Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) is now configured to process urine via UPA and teams are monitoring telemetry for any remaining gas.

