ISS On-Orbit Status 09/12/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Saturday ---  half-duty day for the crew.
 
 STS-128/Discovery (ISS-17A) returned to Earth last evening after two weather-caused wave-offs on 9/10 plus two more yesterday at KSC, landing at EAFB at 8:53:25pm EDT after a highly successful mission lasting 13d 20h 53m 45 s and covering more than 5.7 million miles.  It was the 54<sup>th</sup> Shuttle landing at Dryden Flight Research Center, California.
 
  Aboard ISS, immediately after wakeup (2:00am), FE-2 Stott began the first day of her first session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, commencing with the blood draw.  Dr. Mike Barratt assisted in the phlebotomy from an arm vein.  Later in the day, Nicole also started her 24-hr urine collections.    [After the phlebotomy, Stott’s samples were first allowed to coagulate in the Repository for 20-30 minutes, then spun in the HRF RC (Human Research Facility/Refrigerated Centrifuge) and finally placed in MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  No thruster activity was allowed during the blood drawing.  The RC was later powered off after a temperature reset to limit wear on the compressor, and cleaned.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  FE-3 Roman Romanenko terminated his seventh experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
  The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, CDR Padalka &amp; FE-3 Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of the TsV2 fan screen in the FGB and also performed inspection (for moisture) of structural elements, cables, and instruments behind panel 404, 405, 407, 409, and on the soft air duct of the VTK2 fan (the inspection is done as part of regular “uborka” when an SKV air conditioner is running).
 
  At ~9:05am EDT, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  For today’s VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity, Mike Barratt conducted another session with the experiment BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment), first setting up the camcorder and updating BISE software, then conducting the experiment while Nicole Stott took documentary photography.    [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity. The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration micro-G conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to micro-G and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts are being presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.]
 
  FE-4 Bob Thirsk configured two SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops to provide additional monitor views at the LAB RWS (Robotic Workstation) in support of the subsequent HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) activities.
 
  Then, FE-5 Frank De Winne set up the DOUG (Dynamic Operations Ubiquitous Graphics) for the subsequent SSRMS (Space Station Robotic Manipulator System) activities during which he &amp; Nicole used the SSRMS to practice free-flyer grappling by approaching &amp; capturing the PMA-3 FRGF (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3 Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture) as a “stand-in” for the HTV.  Frank later deactivated the RWS monitor setup.     [Purpose of the exercise: to allow the crew to practice manual SSRMS maneuvers.  After two Joint OCAS (Operator Commanded Auto Sequence) maneuvers, the SSRMS was set up in a “high hover” position over the PMA-3 FRGF, at a distance comparable to the high hover position for HTV.  There are some artificial aspects to these approaches compared to the actual HTV capture, but they should provide a representation of the real SSRMS dynamics and capture sequence (including hand controller technique, Loaded Parameters, rate scale, POHS off, fast capture with dual stage rigidization and time pressure).  DOUG is a frequently updated special software program running on the MSS (Mobile Service System) RWS laptops that provides a graphical birdseye-view image of the external station configuration and the SSRMS arm, showing its real-time location and configuration on a laptop during its operation.]
 
  Barratt completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC laptops.
 
  Romanenko performed the monthly &amp; quarterly TVIS treadmill maintenance.    [The inspection checks out the TVIS in the current SLD (subject loading device) contingency configuration, primarily looking at the condition of the SPDs (subject positioning devices) with clamp/rope assembly wire rope isolators for fraying and damage, plus recording time &amp; date values.]
 
  Thirsk meanwhile conducted the periodic maintenance &amp; visual inspection of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) and its VIS (Vibration Isolation System), guide rails &amp; rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails &amp; rollers and also evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.
 
  Bob also undertook another periodic relocation of the TEPC (Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter) detector assembly, the primary radiation measurement tool in the ISS, moving it from COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory, COL1A3/A2) back to SM Panel 327 (where it was until its move to COL on 8/21).
 
  The crew performed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3). 
 
  Afterwards, Mike transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
  At ~4:20am EDT, FE-1 Barratt powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and conducted, at 4:25am, a ham radio exchange with students at Tokyo Denki University High/Junior High School, Koganei, Tokyo, Japan.    [The Tokyo Dendai (Tokyo Electric University) junior high/high school was established in 1948. The school has about 1200 students.]
 
  At ~12:20pm, Padalka &amp; Romanenko engaged in a PAO TV interview with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine, an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.    [“Please, give us some summary of your work on the ISS.  Was everything a success?  What are your thoughts before descent?  When will you start getting ready?  How did your joint activity with STS-128 go?  What are you currently involved in at the ISS?  What kind of welcome do you have in mind for your guest and new tenants?”]
 
 
