
Biochemical Profile: the crew completed Urine and Blood collections today. The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew replaced the compensator module in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Hi Bit-depth Multi-Spectral (HiBMS) Imaging package today.  This is in preparation for the upcoming ACME E-Field Flames investigation. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Atomization:  The crew replaced sample syringes for the Atomization investigation today. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Today the crew cleaned and exchanged sample cartridges to prepare for ground-commanded operations. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
SpaceTex-2 and Metabolic Space:  A crewmember donned instrumentation hardware during an exercise session. SpaceTex fabrics provide a higher rate of sweat evaporation and a corresponding higher evaporative heat loss compared to conventional cotton fabrics used by astronauts on the ISS.  Metabolic Space provides a technology demonstration for a measurement system worn by astronauts that supports cardio-pulmonary diagnosis during physical activities of astronauts living onboard the ISS, while maintaining unrestricted mobility.
ESA Education Payload Operations (EPO): Crew performed an educational photo opportunity for the Crystallization of Charged Particles Experiment as part of the Flying Classroom 2 series. The activities related to this project are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum, and through this, stimulate the curiosity of students and motivate them towards further study of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) subjects. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Closeout Panel and Fastener Survey: The crew have reported that several fasteners on WHC closeout panels have become unusable, mainly due to a failure of the D-ring handle. Engineering has determined that it could be possible to provide replacement fasteners for on-orbit replacement if certain aspects of the panels and the receiver socket are in adequate condition. To assess the condition of these panels, the crew inspected and photo-documented all WHC closeout panels, fastener, and fastener receiver sockets for analysis by engineering experts.
Instrumentation System (IWIS) Remote Sensing Unit (RSU) Antenna Replacement: Today the crew Removed and Replaced (R&R) a damaged IWIS antenna in the Russian Service Module (SM) and the Columbus module. Once complete with the R&R, the crew inspected the other seven RSUs on ISS and found damage to those in Node 1 and Node 3; those antennas were also replaced and photographs of the remaining antennas were taken for documentation purposes.

