
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7): The crew completed the second of two days of rodent operations for the RR-7 investigation. Crewmembers will perform bone densitometer scans, blood draws, fecal pellet collections, and sampling operations. They also completed cleaning of the rodent habitats. The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions.
Microbial Tracking-2: Today a crewmember collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period.  After the samples return to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA is conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time.
Food Acceptability: Crewmember performed the questionnaire. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results provide developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Robotics On-Board Training (OBT): Today the crew performed a self-study OBT session using the Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) in preparation for HTV-7 approach and rendezvous. They practiced HTV approach and retreat monitoring, as well as HTV capture, using a simulated Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback.
Airlock Minicam Power/Video Cable Remove and Replace (R&R): In order to restore full functionality to the Airlock Minicam, the crew R&Rd a power and data cable that ground teams suspect has failed. This cable connects the Minicam to the Advanced Video Interface Unit (AVIU) and is required to capture video inside the Airlock during ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) operations. A checkout of the Minicam will be completed in conjunction with EVA activities during the upcoming HTV-7 Battery RVAs later in this month.

