
Payloads:
Circadian Light: The Circadian Light start-of-next-day assessment was performed. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Earthshine from ISS: Earthshine procedure training and Public Relations Photos were completed. The Earthshine from ISS investigation involves the thorough analysis of photos taken of the Moon from the ISS at specific points in the lunar cycle to study changes in the Earth’s reflectance of light, or albedo. Activities consist of in-flight sessions comprised of photography of the Moon by the crew using a handheld digital camera and lens available aboard the ISS.
JAXA Media Take: JAXA Media Take Part 1 Review was performed. The JAXA Education Payload Observation (EPO) includes conducting cultural activities such as writing reports about and filming video of activities aboard the ISS. These tools can help inform the public about the importance of the ISS, the JEM, and human spaceflight.
Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4: The Robot Programming Challenge 4 Final Rounds were completed. Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 is an educational competition for students in the Asia-Pacific region. The students are tasked to create a program that demonstrates accurate control of Astrobee.
Sleep in Orbit: Electroencephalogram (EEG) Earpieces were placed in subject ears and Sleep in Orbit data was recorded. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep In Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG based sleep monitoring.
Vascular Aging: Glucose setup and procedure review were completed. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
Columbus Rack Transfers: Today the crew transferred three Columbus (COL) racks as part of preparation for the Enhanced European Exploration Exercise Device (E4D), planned to be installed in 2025. The crew transferred EDR2 from its temporary location at NOD2D2 to COL1A2 in preparation for activation and checkout for upcoming science on NG-20. Biolab rack was transferred from COL1A2 to COL1F3, and Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) from COL1F3 to COL1D4. This initial rack shuffle sets up a better configuration for the remaining swaps in 2024. The E4D is a new crew exercise device that is designed for long-term exploration missions.
Emergency Hardware Relocation for the Upcoming Direct Handover: On Friday, the 70S crew will launch and dock to the ISS. In preparation for their arrival, the crew performed an ammonia cartridge installation of four onboard emergency masks. Each of these masks will be allocated to a 70S crewmember, and one spare without an installed ammonia cartridge will be stowed. The crew also restowed an ammonia measurement kit, ammonia cartridge bags, and an emergency mask stowage bag.
