
Payloads:
Circadian Light: Photos were taken of the light panel setup and an end-of-day assessment was performed in support of the ongoing Circadian Lights investigation. Circadian Light tests a new lighting system that is designed to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm in comparison to the current lighting aboard the ISS. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew verified that the Ion Pump Controller Power LED was illuminated. This allows the health of the new science module, 3B, to be preserved until it can be installed in the CAL facility in the near future. CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Food Processor: In preparation for science activities later this week, the crew charged the experiment batteries. The objective of the ISS Advanced System for Space Food (Food Processor) investigation is to test a prototype equipment demonstrator with one specific recipe that uses basic cooking functions (beating egg whites, mixing products). The fully functional future version of the Food Processor equipment provides extra capability to weigh, mix, knead, heat, dry, cook, color, and rehydrate, and will be developed and available for future exploration missions.
Immunity Assay: The crew collected and processed various biological samples in support of the multi-day experiment session. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a biological sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
Lumina: Lumina was rebooted, but the subsequent data transfer was not able to be performed due to connectivity issues. The ground team is discussing a forward plan. Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The components of the EarthKAM experiment were installed and activated in Node 2 for a week-long imaging session. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted in the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Sleep in Orbit: The experiment batteries were charged, and a sleep recording session was initiated. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During, and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG (electroencephalography) based sleep monitoring.
Zero T2: An Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session was performed on the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, GMT 260, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock slide table. SPDM then extracted the multi-Needle Langmuir Probe (m-NLP) and maneuvered it to the Bartolomeo payload hosting platform on the Columbus module. Following successful installation of m-NLP to Bartolomeo site 3, MSS was maneuvered to a park configuration. Finally, MSS was powered down as all operations were completed nominally. The m-NLP will measure the density of charged particles around Earth down to a metre-scale, a precision never achieved before. Six probes will collect measurements up to 5000 times a second.
69S SOKOL Suit Leak Check: In preparation for 69S return to earth on September 27th, the 69S crew donned their Russian SOKOL launch and entry suits in order to perform standard leak checks. All leak checks were completed successfully.
Food Consolidate: The crew filled NOD1S4 food lockers and consolidated food Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs) in the PMM to ensure easy access to food while also helping to reduce the overall stowage footprint in the PMM. Crew time is often allocated toward stowage management to maintain safety, organization, and habitability. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: The crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The fill was then terminated, and the Post-Flight Analysis Bag was analyzed after the pressure relief burp. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The crew set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. 
