
ISS Reboost: Today, the ISS performed a reboost using the Aft Progress 81P research and design thrusters. The purpose of this reboost was to set up proper phasing conditions for the upcoming 68S launch and 67S return. The burn duration was 1 min 46 seconds with a Delta-V of 0.22 m/s.
Payloads:
Education Payload Operations (ESA-EPO): A demonstration of Newton’s 1st Law of Motion was recorded during an ISS reboost today. The video will be used as example footage in a new video series exploring the Laws of Motion to be released as a resource for teachers to use in the classroom. The video will feature Paxi, ESA’s mascot for young children. The final video product will be edited to include physics concepts, voiceover explanations, and ground footage to compare the demonstrations on Earth vs. in space. ESA’s ISS Education Program makes use of human spaceflight to capture the attention and the interest of students, to attract them to study scientific and technical disciplines. The program hopes to further develop the student’s appreciation and understanding of the benefits, challenges, and importance of space for Europe, as well as a member of a global economy. 
Foams and Emulsions: Samples were swapped in the KERMIT microscope as part of Experiment 3 sessions to observe emulsions formed with various solutions. Foams (dispersions of bubbles in a liquid) and emulsions (dispersions of droplets in a liquid) appear in many food, consumer, and personal care products and are used in a variety of industries. Structure and Stability of Foams and Emulsions examines the properties and performance of foams and emulsions, including using particles of various shapes and surface roughness to stabilize these materials. Microgravity enables examination of the microstructures of foams and emulsions due to the elimination of the influence of gravity-related factors such as buoyancy of particles.
Life Support Rack (LSR): Hoses between the Lab condensate tank and the LSR were disconnected and stowed. LSR is a technology demonstrator for closed loop air revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR will operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Lumina: The LUMINA hardware was power cycled and large data files were transferred to the ground.  Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR): The MSPR laptop hard drive was replaced. The MSPR is a multipurpose payload rack system used in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). The MSPR has two workspaces and a worktable that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization including science and educational missions.
Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (IBP) via the Ring-Sheared Drop (RSD) (RSD-IBP): The existing equipment was replaced with new syringes and test cells that are installed onto RSD hardware in the Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume. The RSD module is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction – Growth and Extinction Limit (SoFIE-GEL): The SOFIE Chamber Insert was removed for preparation of the Fuel/Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) calibration. After FOMA was calibrated, the SOFIE insert was re-installed. The SoFIE-GEL investigation studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. The results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques to ultimately improve crew safety in future space facilities.
Systems:
Toilet Test and Checkout: Today, toilet testing part two was completed. This activity was split into two parts: part one tested the system with water only and part two tested the system with water and pretreat. Today, the toilet dose pump and pretreat tank were setup to prevent pretreat entering the toilet during testing or checkout. The crew simulated toilet use using water and pretreat while the ground team provided real-time feedback to crew on system health. The ground teams will review the data to determine if the performance is acceptable for crew use.
JEM Stowage Reconfiguration: The crew consolidated stowage in the JEM in preparation for the arrival of Northrop Grumman’s (NG-18) cargo resupply mission. NG-18 is scheduled to launch to the ISS in early November.

