
Fluid Shifts Imaging Measurements with Russian Chibis:  Today, Kelly, Kornienko and Volkov, with remote guidance from a ground team,  each used a Russian Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure – LBNP) device during ultrasound measurements of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is under investigation to support development of preventative measures against a lasting change in vision.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Preparation for JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) #4 Launch:  Yui, in concert with a ground team, depressed and vented the JEM Airlock in support of the deploy of two JSSOD satellites this Thursday, September 17th.  The first satellite is designed to observe the Ultraviolet (UV) spectrum during the Orionid meteor shower in October.  The second satellite, sponsored by the University of Brasilia and the Brazilian government, focuses on meteorological data collection.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Internal Thermal Control Systems (ITCS) Fill:  As part of routine maintenance, Lindgren setup and used the Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Fluids Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) to refill the JEM Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) and Low Temperature loop (LTL) accumulators.  After FSS operations were complete, he drained and purged the FSS FCPA and ITCS Jumpers.
 
Resupply Stowage Platform (RSP) Transfer:  Kelly and Yui transferred the RSP Rack from the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) to H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) today. Once the RSP was transferred, the crew restowed all the items that were moved as a result of the RSP Rack transfer activity.
 
Columbus Trash Gather:  Yui gathered European Space Agency (ESA) items located within the Columbus module and staged them for future disposal on HTV-5.
 
Russian Treadmill (БД-2):  The Russian crew reported that БД-2 was experiencing hardware issues.  Photos have been downlinked for ground analysis.  Russian crew will use Treadmill-2 (T2) while БД-2 is down.
 

