
70 Soyuz Launch and Dock: This morning at 10:44 AM CDT, 70S launched from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan and docked to the MRM1 docking port at 2:04 PM CDT after a 2-orbit rendezvous. 70S carried NASA astronaut Loral O’Hara and Roscosmos cosmonauts Oleg Kononenko and Nikolai Chub. Hatches opened at 4:15 PM CDT and the crew complement onboard the ISS increased from 7 to 10 upon 70S arrival. Upon ingress into the ISS, the crew participated in a station-wide welcome ceremony and mandatory safety briefing.
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device – Kinematics (ARED-K): ARED-K hardware was set up and session 2 was performed following crew troubleshooting. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): CBEF Image Processing Unit 2 (IPU2) video cables were reconfigured in support of Plant Experiment Unit checkout. The CBEF is a JAXA subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Exploration Environmental Health System (EHS) BioMole Facility: BioMole DNA Prep and Sequencing Part 3 was completed. EHS BioMole Facility demonstrates technology for monitoring the microbial environment onboard a spacecraft. As part of a Crew Health Care System (CHeCS), this technology could support missions such as Gateway and Mars transit that do not have the capability to return samples to Earth for analysis. The investigation evaluates the ability of the EHS BioMole Facility to accurately analyze potable water samples on the ISS. 
Sleep in Orbit: Crew Sleep in Orbit data recordings were completed for post-sleep sessions and the EveryWear questionnaires were completed. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep In Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG (electroencephalography) based sleep monitoring.
Z-Camera Virtual Reality (ZCAM VR) Livestream: ZCAM VR Livestream Hardware was setup in Node 2 and recording was attended by the crew. Felix & Paul Studios (FPS) ZCAM VR Livestream demonstrates livestreaming of 360-degree virtual reality video from the ISS to audiences on the ground. The project uses hardware that recorded 4K immersive video and audio for “Space Explorers: ISS Experience,” adding new software capabilities and an expanded ground segment. The VR livestream provides people on the ground the opportunity to immerse themselves in the world of crew members on the orbiting lab.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Activities: The crew completed a cleaning of the intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and airflow sensors in the Starboard CQ. The crew also completed removal and replacement of the 9V batteries in the deck CQ and performed an audio egress light test. Periodic cleaning and maintenance of the CQs ensure that the health and comfort of the crew is maintained throughout their stay on the ISS.
Columbus Post-Rack Transfer Activities: This week, the crew transferred three Columbus (COL) racks as part of preparation for the Enhanced European Exploration Exercise Device (E4D), planned to be installed in 2025. Today, the crew relocated the DOSIS Passive Detector Pack (PDP) to the EDR2 rack in COL1A2 and restowed the ESA rack front stowage. This rack shuffle and organization set up a better configuration for the remaining swaps in 2024. The E4D is a new crew exercise device that is designed for long term exploration missions.
