
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew replaced the ELF gas bottle unit in the ELF facility. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): The crew retrieved the 8 dosimeter detectors and pouches from Node 1 front rack and conveyed them to the Russian crew for data download. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight. It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew performed Day 2 of Rodent Research operations. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station Racks (EXPRESS): The crew performed acoustic Inspections on Express Racks 1 and 2 as part of noise level troubleshooting steps. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
Cupola Portable Computer System (PCS): Yesterday, the Cupola PCS went offline and was found unpowered by the crew. Troubleshooting was not successful at returning the PCS to service and a shell swap will be planned. The next planned operations in the Cupola that will need a PCS is HTV-8 capture.
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Status: Today, ground teams received a telemetry fault indication associated with the UPA Advanced Recycle Filter Tank Assembly. The Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) was then configured to collect urine via internal tank (EDB).  Meanwhile, ground teams are developing a forward plan.

