
Microbial Tracking-2:  Today a crewmember collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period.  After the samples return to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA is conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time.
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): Today Best experiment operations was performed to initiate DNA sequencing from samples collected today. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS. 
Atomization: The crew replaced the sample syringe and water trap for the Atomization investigation, allowing the ground team to initiate and complete an experiment run. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion.
On-Orbit Fit Verification (OFV): Today the crew completed an OFV in support of the upcoming H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Battery Remove and Replace (R&R) ExtraVehicular Activity (EVAs).  During the OFV, the crew took body measurements and resized their Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) to ensure proper fit. Each EMU contains exchangeable components allowing each astronaut to adjust EMU fit to their individual preference.
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  In preparation for the upcoming H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Battery Remove and Replace (R&R) EVAs, the crew completed a plethora of Road-To-EVA task. In addition to initiating a Metal Oxide (MetOx) Canister regeneration cycle, they prepared the Equipment Lock for EVA and completed a checkout of the Simplified Aids for EVA Rescue (SAFERs).
Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) Reconfiguration: H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 will bring the new Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) to ISS. To make room for this new hardware, the crew configured a ZSR in the Japanese Experimental Module (JEM) today by removing the insert that provides the doors and inside shelf structure. They also re-configured the lateral struts and installed extensions onto the ZSR seat track so LSG can be correctly positioned once installed.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Educational Event: Today Ricky Arnold participated in a live downlink with the Liberty County School District (LCSD) in Hinesville, Georgia. LCSD is located in an impoverished area and today’s event provided students with an opportunity to see beyond their circumstances and look to the potential they have in the future.
Compressor-M Remove and Replace (R&R): There have been multiple issues recently with the Compressor-M during Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Recycle Tank Drain and Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill activities. Since this unit worked well past its expected lifetime, the crew R&Rd the unit today with the Compressor-N spare.  A checkout of the Compressor was completed during a WSTA Fill session and the unit performed nominally.

