
52 Soyuz (52S) Dock: 52S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome this evening, and docked to the ISS bringing Misurkin, Acaba, and Vande Hei to the ISS. Docking to the Mini Research Module-2 (MRM-2) module was completed at 09:55 PM CDT with hatch opening at 12:08 AM CDT. The arrival of 52S increased the ISS crew complement from 3 to 6 crewmembers.
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): The crew performed a FMS session this morning. The FMS experiment is executed on a touchscreen tablet, where the crew performs a series of interactive tasks. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Multi-Omics Mouse:  Today the crew collected samples for later analysis in support of the Multi-Omics Mouse investigation.  Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In the Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, to determine if they improve the gut environment and immune function.  After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis.
NanoRacks Module 9: The crew conducted the fourth operations session of NanoRacks Module 9 by activating mixture tubes in support of the NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science-Casper (NanoRacks-NCESSE-Casper) investigation.  NCESSE supports various schools and student-designed experiments that address challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for U.S. science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), which strives to educate and inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program.  
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  The crew configured single stowage lockers to accommodate rodent habitats returning on SpX-12. The RR-9 experiment studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays aboard the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joint, the eyes and the immune system.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector A (LEE A) Survey: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the SSRMS to perform a survey of the LEE A latches using the P1 Lower Outboard (LOOB) External High Definition Camera (EHDC). No signs of damage was seen during the survey. The Robotics Ground Controllers also performed checkouts of LEE A in preparation for re-grappling SpaceX Dragon 12 on GMT Day 257 and of the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload/Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) in preparation for the LEE-A/POA swap during the Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) on GMT 278.  Both the LEE A and the POA checkouts were nominal.  MSS performance today was also nominal. 

