
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday afternoon, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position to survey the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Earth Sensor Assembly (ESA) unit B, which had experienced an anomaly on GMT 234. Afterwards, the SSRMS was moved back to its original position.
 
Today, Robotic Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS into position to receive a hand off of the Exposed Pallet (EP) from the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS). Once the handoff was completed, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the EP to H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-5 where ISS Crew Members Lindgren and Yui inserted it into the HTV-5 Unpressurized Logistics Carrier (ULC).  HTV-5 is scheduled to unberth from ISS on September 28th.
 
Russian Pilot-T Experiment: Kelly performed his third session for Pilot-T. The goal of the Pilot-T experiment is to improve methods and develop equipment to assess and predict crewmember performance reliability during the execution of complex operator tasks (piloting a space vehicle and controlling transport and robotic equipment on the surface of a spacecraft) during various stages of long-term spaceflight.
 
Fine Motor Skills Experiment:  Kornienko completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment.  During the experiment he performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills for Kornienko is to identify trends or variations in fine motor performance in microgravity over the duration of a year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance changes before and after gravitational transitions, such as during early flight adaptation and after return to Earth.
 
Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Glycerol/Water Fill:  Kononenko filled the inkjet droplet device with glycerol and water in preparation for the final experiment protocol on each sample container.
 
Kubik 5 Temperature and Centrifuge Data Transfer:  Yui transfered data from ESA’s KUBIK 5 hardware to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink to the ground.  He then disconnected and stowed KUBIK 5 hardware.
 
Initial Preparations for Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) #4 Launch:  In preparation for the deploy of JSSOD satellites this Thursday, September 17th, Yui set up the Robotic Work Station (RWS) in the Cupola.
 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) Routine Maintenance:  Lindgren performed a change out of the WHC UR and insert filter. Following the change out, a WHC functionality test was succesfully performed.
 
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization:  Volkov and Kelly reviewed where emergency hardware is located on the ISS. Among the items covered were the US Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), US and Russian fire extinguishers, emergency masks, fire/ammonia cartridges and ammonia measurement kits.
 
HTV Cargo / Galley Rack Transfer Status:  All three USOS crew members performed HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today. Among the items being transferred was the new Galley Rack.  Interference was encountered during installation of the rack in Node 1.  Bungies and zip ties were used to temporarily hold the rack in place. Meanwhile ground teams assess photographs taken by the crew.  Hardware needed for Galley Rack activation will arrive on a later flight.  Approximately 10 hours remain to complete HTV-5 cargo operations.
 
SSC Donut 2 Service Pack Deploy:  Overnight Friday, the SSC service pack named Donut 2 was installed successfully on all SSCs. Donut 2 contains upgrades for OPTIMIS (Onboard Short Term Plan Viewer replacement), International Procedure Viewer (IPV), and the Crew Webpage.  Donut 1 was previously deployed on GMT 230.  This completes the Donut Service Pack deploy.
 
 

