
ISS Reboost: Today the ISS performed a reboost using the SM Aft 75P R&D thrusters. This is the second of three planned reboosts to set up phasing conditions for 63S rendezvous on October 14 and 62S landing on October 21.
Payloads
Astrobee: The crew powered on the Astrobee units to allow for ground controlled operations in the JAXA module. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
ISS HAM: The crew initiated an ISS HAM contact with College Raymond Sirot, in Gueux, France. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
FLUIDICS (Fluid Dynamics in Space): The crew performed the FLUIDICS hardware installation and set the experiment into run start. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Systems
Urine Process Assembly (UPA) Distillation Assembly (DA) Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew completed this R&R today. Several upgrades within the unit will address many issues and shortcomings identified over the course of UPA DA history. Condensation management, pretreat urine/brine leak paths and belt slips are among the most impactful issues addressed on this unit, achieved primarily by redesigns and material changes.
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Multifiltration (MF) Bed R&R: The crew performed this R&R today. The WPA has been successfully operating with only 1 MF bed since 7/3/19 when both the Catalytic Reactor and MF Beds were R&R’d. Since then the MF Bed experienced the first breakthrough of contaminants after ~8,700 lbm of throughput. This is in family with previous MF Beds placed in the first slot during dual-bed operations. This configuration is important for testing the viability of single bed operations for future exploration missions.

