
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) reconfiguration:  FE-6 performed the teardown and removal of the Heart Cell payload from the MSG.  Heart Cells was completed and returned to the ground on SpaceX-9.  On Tuesday, the crew will install the Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument Experiment Diffusion Coefficient Mixture (SODI DCMix)-3 into the MSG work volume.  The Heart Cell investigation studies the human heart, specifically how heart muscle tissue contracts, grows and changes (gene expression) in microgravity and how those changes vary among subjects. Understanding how heart muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes, change in space improves efforts for studying disease, screening drugs and conducting cell replacement therapy for future space missions.  The main purpose of the SODI DCMix-3 investigation is the measurement of diffusion coefficients of selected ternary mixtures taking advantage of the reduced gravity environment available on board the ISS. 
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Preparation: FE-5 extended the JEMAL Slide Table into the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) volume and installed the Small Fine Arm (SFA) Attachment Mechanism (SAM) to the table.  FE-5 installed the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) on the SAM.  The crew reviewed the NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) installation procedure ahead of tomorrow’s installation. 
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): FE-5 and FE-6 performed their FMS sessions this morning.  Performing a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation. This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. The crewmember’s fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Suit Maintenance: The crew performed maintenance tasks on EMU 3006 and EMU 3010 including an EMU swap, a loop scrub, a post-loop scrub water sample, suit and ion filter iodination and an EMU conductivity test.  
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Network Storage (NeST) Mesh Replacement:  The crew removed the NeST mesh cover that covers the NeST internal fan inlet, changed out the mesh and replace the cover.  The old mesh was vacuumed and stowed.  This is nominal maintenance.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position clear of the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer #9 (NRCSD 9) deploy operations scheduled for next week.  MSS Performance today was nominal.

