
Resist Tubule (Mechanisms of Gravity Resistance in Plants From Signal Transformation and Transduction to Response):  Today Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg attached a Plant Experiment Unit (PEU) with plant samples and the Dehumidifier inside the Cell Biology Experiment Unit (CBEF) and then activated the PEU program.  After 32 days of growth in the PEU an ISS crew member will retrieve the culture chambers and harvest the plants for fixation using Kennedy Space Center (KSC) Fixation Tube (KFT). JAXA’s Resist Tubule is an investigation that uses the microgravity environment of ISS to examine the modifications in cellular components that are responsible for gravity resistance in plants.  The knowledge gathered during this investigation will enable efficient plant production in both space and on earth.
Emergency Mask Replacement In Flight Maintenance (IFM) and Training:  Nyberg replaced current Ammonia Respirator Kits with new Emergency Mask Kits.  Afterwards, all crewmembers took part in an On-Board Training (OBT) session in order to practice mask donning and purging techniques. The new Emergency Mask Kits are able to be used for ammonia or smoke scenarios versus the older kits which were solely used for ammonia.
Orbital-D1 (Orb-D1) Launch Preparations: Orb-D1 launch date has slipped from September 17th to the 18th. The launch window will open at 09:50 CDT.  The slip was due to a communications problem discovered between ground support equipment and the Antares flight computer on the pad.   A damaged cable was replaced and an Ethernet switch had to be reset in order to established communication between the ground support equipment and flight computer. Although the launch has slipped by a day, berthing with ISS remains on schedule for 22 September.  Orbital is go for launch following today’s Launch Readiness Review.
Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout: Parmitano installed CBCS onto the Node 2 nadir hatch window and connected the associated power, video, and electronics cables.  Initially, the video from the camera was not observed as ground teams expected. However, after some troubleshooting, a faulty electronics cable was identified and replaced.  Once installation was complete, video from the CBCS camera was routed to the Cupola Robotics Work Station (RWS) for verification and checkout. CBCS is used as a prime cue during CBM berthing and will remain installed until Orb-D1 arrival.
Node 2 Nadir CBM Checkout: Ground teams commanded a checkout of the Node 2 Nadir CBM to confirm functionality prior to Orb-D1 launch.  An additional checkout of the CBM will be performed the day before berthing.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) Thruster Test: Ground controllers performed a planned series of firings of ATV thruster T402, to collect pressure sensor data.  The thruster has been deactivated since June 15th, when it had an anomalous pressure signature.  Ground teams will be reviewing the data from the test to decide whether or not to reintegrate the thruster.

