ISS On-Orbit Status 09/15/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – Prep for Soyuz 30S Undocking.
 
After wakeup, CDR Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Also at wake-up, FE-4 Malenchenko conducted the periodic checkup of the circuit breakers &amp; fuses in the MRM1 Rassvet &amp; MRM2 Poisk modules.      [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 &amp; MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &amp; BPP-36.  MRM2 &amp; MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.]
 
With the Russian crewmembers occupied with preparations for tomorrow’s undocking, the regular weekly three-hour task of house cleaning today was performed by FE-3 Acaba, FE-5 Williams &amp; FE-6 Hoshide, taking care of USOS (US Orbit Segment) modules like Lab, Nodes, COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
Joe Acaba also performed regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
In preparation for his return to gravity tomorrow evening (7:09pm EDT), FE-2 Sergei Revin undertook Part 2 of his 5<sup>th</sup> and final exercise/training session of the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular evaluation in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP) on the TVIS treadmill with CDR Padalka assisting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).    [The assessment, lasting 90 min., supported by ground specialist tagup (VHF) and telemetry monitoring from Russian ground sites, uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels. The Chibis ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmembers’ orthostatic tolerance after several months in zero-G.  The closeout exercise generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by two cycles of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -35, -40 mmHg (Torr) for 5 min. each, followed by -10 mmHg for 1 min., -20, -35, -40 mmHg for 10 min. each, and a final 30 mmHg for 5 min. and drop to 0 mmHg, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure, medically monitored with the Gamma-1M hardware.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
Sunita Williams deployed four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies in the Lab (at bay P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307) for two days, to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.    [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]
 
Suni also conducted another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.      [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
Later, FE-5 took air samples with new GSCs (Grab Sample Containers) in the center of SM (#2109), Lab (#2113) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module, #2112), sequenced with the AQM sampling for postflight comparison.    [GSC samples are to be taken 1-3 hrs after AQM start.]
 
Sergei Revin collected regular air samples for return on 30S, using a Russian AK-1M absorber in the SM for air &amp; Freon, plus IPD-CO Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide) and subsequently also for NH<sub>3</sub> (Ammonia).
 
Afterwards, Revin conducted the MO-22 Sanitary-Epidemiological Status check, part of the Russian MedOps program done on structures and crewmembers usually before Soyuz departures.  Malenchenko assisted.     [To monitor for microflora, Sergei collected samples from surface areas of interior panels and hardware at numerous locations in the SM, FGB, MRM1, MRM2, DC1 and ATV-3, also from himself, CDR Padalka &amp; FE-4 Malenchenko using cotton swabs and special test tubes which were then stowed in 30S for return to the ground.]
 
Gennady worked in the TMA-04M spacecraft’s Orbital Module (BO), disconnecting &amp; taking out the electronic LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and its PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory) unit, for stowage and recycling in a future vehicle.
 
Padalka also had another 2h15m for loading cargo on Soyuz 30S.
 
Malenchenko removed Bioekologia container #6-4 of the Russian BTKh-8 BIOTREK (Influence of heavy charged particles of space radiation on the generic properties of cells producing biologic active substances) payload from its MRM1 stowage, shot documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera with SB800 flash and transferred the experiment to 30S for loading by Gennady.
 
Yuri also photo-documented and transferred Bioekologia container #7-3 of the BTKh-29 ZHENSHEN-2/Ginseng-2 (Study of new plants for biological products and genotypes with increased biological activity) payload from MRM2 stowage to the TMA-04M spacecraft.
 
Acaba removed 4 SODI (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument) flash disks from the Colloid flash disk stowage bag and packed them for return to Earth, handing them over to the CDR for loading on 30S.    [The ESA SODI experiment has three parts, IVIDIL, DSC &amp; Colloid, for advanced research in vibration effects on diffusion in liquids, diffusion measurements in petroleum reservoirs and the study on growth and properties of advanced photonic materials within colloidal solutions, respectively.]
 
Malenchenko continued the current round of the periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today spending ~2h50m in the SM to inspect &amp; clean “Group B2” ventilator fans &amp; grilles.
 
Later, Yuri performed standard service on the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 by downloading the new batch of structural dynamics measurements of the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer from the HTV unberthing to the RSE1 laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.       [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]
 
FE-2 Revin used the standard ECOSFERA equipment to conduct microbial air sampling runs, Part 2, for the MedOps SZM-MO-21 experiment, with the POTOK Air Purification System temporarily powered down, taking Kit 2 samples from cabin surfaces along with samples from crewmembers for sanitation and disease studies.  The Petri dishes with the samples were then stowed in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container and subsequently packed for return in Soyuz 30S.     [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger, power supply unit, and incubation tray for Petri dishes, determines microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.  Because the Ecosphere battery can only support 10 air samples on one charge at one given time, the sample collection must be performed in two stages.]
 
Afterwards, Sergei retrieved and gathered SSVP Internal Transfer System accessory tools for the Soyuz docking ports from the kit in the Soyuz 30S BO (Orbital Module) for consolidation in a suitably-sized stowage bag and relocation the equipment to the MRM2 Poisk module.
 
FE-4 conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Malenchenko also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
FE-6 Hoshide filled out his standard FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MDLT (Medical Laptop).  It was Aki’s 7<sup>th</sup>.      [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MDLT software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
30S crewmembers Padalka &amp; Revin again had an hour set aside each for personal crew departure preparations which is standard pre-return procedure for homecoming crewmembers.
 
FE-4, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 conducted their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Aki at ~10:20am, Yuri at ~11:55am, Suni at ~3:20pm EDT.
 
At ~4:30am, with ISS Command being transferred tonight from Padalka to Williams for Increment 33, with Yuri Malenchenko &amp; Akihiko Hoshide as Flight Engineers, Gennady &amp; Yuri signed two copies of the formal Russian Handover Protocol document certifying RS (Russian Segment) handover/acceptance, including the contents of Progress 48P (#415), currently docked at DC-1 nadir, MRM1 Rassvet, and MRM2 Poisk.    [The first copy remains on ISS, the second copy will be returned to the ground on Soyuz TMA-04M.  “We, the Undersigned, have executed this Act to the effect that Gennady Padalka 31-32, responsible for ISS-31/32 RS, handed over the ISS RS, Yuri Malenchenko, a crew member in charge of the ISS-32/33 RS, accepted the ISS RS, including the operating features and onboard system or equipment anomalies.”] 
 
At ~7:10am, Sunita Williams activated the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) routing to downlink the recording of Joe’s and her Treadmill Kinematics sessions of yesterday, stopping it at ~10:35am.       [POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) routed the on-board HRDL (High-Rate Data Line) system.]
 
At ~2:35pm tonight, all six crewmembers joined up for the traditional “Change of Command” ceremony, officially marking the transfer of the baton from Increment 32 to Increment 33, with Sunita Williams taking over Command from Gennady Padalka who temporarily will become FE-1.
 
Later, before sleeptime, Suni will configure onboard C&amp;T (Communications &amp; Tracking) for her CQ (Crew Quarters) as the new “On-Call” crewmember by connecting the Node-2 port-side ATU (Audio Terminal Unit) #15 to the CQ and verifying speaker functionality.
 
The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-2/2x, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [FE-6 &amp; FE-5 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Suni on Friday, for Aki on Thursday.  If any day is not completed, Suni &amp; Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day.]
 
Tasks listed for Revin, Malenchenko &amp; Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l3 level1 lfo7">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l3 level1 lfo7">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 

