
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): The crew transferred cells from previously stowed media kit to the new media tubes using pipettes and temp stow tubes. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The crew exchanged a sample cartridge from the Low Grade Furnace in preparation for the next sample run. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules. In this way, many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials. 
MSPR (Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack): The crew installed a new DC converter unit adapter into the JEM MSPR today. This activity was performed due to the failure in the previous unit. The MSPR has two workspaces and a worktable that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization including science and educational missions. 
Cryo Chiller: The crew removed the cartridge and performed decontamination steps for the Cryo Chiller. Cryo Chiller is a single Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) locker replacement unit, which provides rapid freezing capability in support of biological sciences, as well as temperature-controlled transfer to/from the ISS on visiting vehicles.
NanoRacks Rotational Dynamics (Adidas OS SPIN): The crew performed the Payload operations for the Rotational Dynamics Experiment. The investigation examines the behavior of free-flying soccer balls in microgravity. Researchers measure the spin speed, wobble, and spin axis of balls with different shapes and textures and compare the data to Earth-based experiments. Results could improve the understanding of interaction between free-flying objects and their environment.
Microgravity Crystals (MGC): As part of Session 5 operations, the crew set up a microscope, then took images of the solutions and any crystals in the wells of the crystal plates. The Microgravity Crystals investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects.
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded the NanoRacks Rotational Dynamics Experiment using the ISS Experiment Z-cameras. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew transferred sample vials from one MELFI dewer location to another to maintain -80 deg C. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Checkouts & Diagnostics: Ground teams successfully performed SSRMS Latching End Effector (LEE) checkouts and joint brake diagnostics activities that satisfy the robotics launch commit criteria (LCC) for HTV-8.

