
Change of Command Ceremony: The full crew on-board the ISS participated in a public ceremony to mark the change of command between Roscosmos cosmonaut Sergey Prokopyev and ESA astronaut Andreas Mogensen. The change of command is in preparation for tomorrow’s 69 Soyuz return, carrying NASA astronaut Frank Rubio and Roscosmos cosmonauts Sergey Prokopyev and Dmitry Petelin back to Earth after over a year on-board the ISS.
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew continued to remove and replace the science module and heat exchanger components of the CAL experiment system.  This work is expected to continue all week and the goal is to replace the aging science module 3 with the new science module 3B. CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Circadian Light: A start-of-the-next-day assessment was performed using the EveryWear app on an iPad.  Circadian Light tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Food Processor: The crew gathered the appropriate items and used the Food Processor to prepare chocolate mousse per the recipe. The objective of the ISS Advanced System for Space Food (Food Processor) investigation is to test a prototype equipment demonstrator with one specific recipe that uses basic cooking functions (beating egg whites, mixing products). The fully functional future version of the Food Processor equipment provides extra capability to weigh, mix, knead, heat, dry, cook, color, and rehydrate, and will be developed and available for future exploration missions.
Hyperspectral Imager Suite (HISUI): The crew exchanged the full Mission Data Recorder (MDR) data hard disk with a new data disk.  This is performed roughly every 90 days when the current disk fills up with stored HISUI experiment data.  HISUI is an external investigation, and the MDR is the internal component of the investigation which is used to record and transfer data.  HISUI is a next generation space borne hyperspectral Earth imaging system. The objective of HISUI onboard the ISS is to obtain the data necessary to begin a full-scale practical application development for hyperspectral remote sensing through manufacturing, and the inflight performance verification of a hyperspectral imager onboard ISS.
RadMap Telescope: The RadMap Telescope hardware was relocated from the JPM to the US Lab as part of its location tour of the ISS. Understanding and overcoming the human risks from space radiation is one of the major challenges facing future space exploration. The Validating New Radiation-Sensing Technologies (RadMap Telescope) demonstrates new radiation-sensing technologies for applications in autonomous and crewed spacecraft. These technologies, which have just become sufficiently mature for large-scale applications, enable compact yet highly capable radiation monitors so future spacecraft can benefit from increased measurement capabilities with fewer sensors.
Systems:
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER): The crew performed training using virtual reality to refamiliarize themselves with the SAFER. Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Lower Torso Assembly (LTA) Waist Cams Troubleshooting: The crew performed troubleshooting on the LTA upper waist cams on EMU 3003 in order to inspect for damage, photo document the area, and verify proper configuration of the LTA waist cams. This activity is in preparation for the upcoming EVAs in October. These EVAs will focus on microorganism studies, removal of the S-Band Radio Frequency Group (RFG), and removal and replacement of the Port Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) Trundle Bearing Assembly (TBA).
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until later this year before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
Cupola Window Photos: The crew captured imagery of the Cupola windows to inspect them for contamination and damage that have not yet been documented. The Cupola consists of seven windows and provides an observation and work area for the ISS crew, giving visibility support the control of the ISS remote manipulator system and general viewing of Earth, celestial objects, and visiting vehicles.
