
Cygnus Status: On Sunday, the joint operations teams discontinued the nominal rendezvous attempt with ISS when Cygnus’s Relative GPS (RGPS) System was unable to initialize. The problem stems from Cygnus GPS time reference not matching that of the JEM’s GPS time.  The A3 DV burn which was scheduled to occur this morning at 7:29 a.m. CDT was deferred in order to give ground teams sufficient time to review data.  A Cygnus software patch that resolves the timing issue is available for upload and integration. The next attempt at Cygnus rendezvous and berth will occur after Soyuz 36S docking operations are complete and related constraints are met.  Soyuz 36S docking is timelined for Wednesday, 25 September.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Status: On Sunday, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) in hot backup configuration, surveyed the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) sealing surface, and configured the Canadarm2 for the crew to capture the Cygnus spacecraft.   After the Cygnus rendezvous was aborted, the ground controllers de-configured the MSS.  Ground teams are also investigating an issue with the Robotics Workstation (RWS) Video Graphics Cards (VGC) shutting down as a result of Cygnus telemetry parameters being out of limits.
Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP) Setup:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano setup and checked out the Hand-Held LIDAR (HHL) with the Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP) in preparation for range and range rate determination used during Cygnus vehicle approach.
NanoRacks Onboard Computer Based Training: To prepare for future NanoRacks Module-9 experiments, Parmitano reviewed training materials for use of NanoRacks Platforms, reconfiguration of modules, and operation of the NanoRacks Microscope-1 and Microsocpe-2.  This investigation results from a commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE), called the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP). Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of 17 different science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the ISS.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment Runs:  Parmitano completed the 29th, 30th and 31st InSPACE-3 runs out of a total of 42 runs planned for this experiment series.  InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state by the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Node 3 Bacterial/Charcoal Filter Remove & Replace (R&R):  Nyberg performed an R&R four bacteria filters  and cleaned two area smoke detectors in Node 3.  This is standard preventative maintenance performed every 100 days.

