
Payloads:
Acoustic Diagnostics: The Acoustic Diagnostic instrument hardware was set up and calibrated, and measurements were recorded. Following this, a questionnaire was filled out on the EveryWear device. The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-Left (CBEF-L): In preparation of the JAXA Liquid Behavior experiment, the crew set up the CBEF-L to support day 1 of the 15 deg C checkout. Fluid behavior in the microgravity environment is different from the behavior on Earth, and the fluid behavior in the system sometimes affects its performance. The Observation of Liquid Behavior in Partial G Environment (Liquid Behavior) investigation provides important information for engineers or scientists to better predict how liquid behaves in the low gravity environment for the optimal design of equipment for future space activities.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The initial 50mm camera lens was exchanged for an 85mm lens on the EarthKAM D2XS camera. This is a nominal part of the week-long EarthKAM mission and enables different targets to be captured effectively. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Foams and Emulsions: Experiment 2 science sessions continued with the generation, injection, and observation of foam. Unfortunately, a leak in the system was seen due to a suspected delamination and the hardware was stowed. Foams (dispersions of bubbles in a liquid) and emulsions (dispersions of droplets in a liquid) appear in many food, consumer, and personal care products and are used in a variety of industries. Structure and Stability of Foams and Emulsions examines the properties and performance of foams and emulsions, including using particles of various shapes and surface roughness to stabilize these materials. Microgravity enables examination of the microstructures of foams and emulsions due to the elimination of the influence of gravity-related factors such as buoyancy of particles.
Systems:
ISS Crew Handover and Adaptation: The experienced 67S and Freedom crewmembers started a handover with the newly arrived 68S crew to transfer knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. The newly arrived crew member executed activities and the experienced crew member provided oversight and assistance. For example today, the new 68S crew were trained on the use of exercise equipment and completed an exercise session on all of the availabe exercise equipment.
Food Consolidate: Today, the crew consolidated the NOD1 food pantry to ensure the crew has easy access to food while also helping to reduce the overall stowage footprint in the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM). Crew time is often allocated toward stowage management to maintain safety, organization, and habitability.
Lab Station Support Computer (SSC) 27 Deploy: The crew installed SSC 27 on the Lab Starboard rack front to replace the Ocular Coherence Tomography (OCT) Laptop that was torn down and returned on SpX-25. SSCs are the laptops associated with non-command activities onboard the ISS. The extra SSC will allow more accessibility during the increased crew complement.

