
Payloads
Dreams: A crewmember doffed the headband upon wakeup and filled out a questionnaire. The unit was then recharged and redonned prior to sleep later in the day. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard ISS.
Microbial Tracking-3: A crewmember collected ISS surface samples while photographing each location and placed the samples into cold stowage. The Quantifying Selection for Pathogenicity and Antibiotic Resistance in Bacteria and Fungi on the ISS – a Microbial Tracking Study (Microbial Tracking-3 or MT-3) investigation continues a series focused on ongoing monitoring of pathogenicity (ability to cause disease) and antibiotic resistance in potentially disease-causing bacteria and fungi present on the International Space Station (ISS). The investigation aims to identify, analyze, and characterize pathogenicity, antibiotic resistance, and genomics to augment the NASA GeneLab with the statistical confidence to characterize microbes associated with closed habitation and predict those that may pose a threat to crew health.
Rodent Research-Demonstration 1 (RR-D1): Crewmembers performed Rodent Research Experiment 2 operations and completed the setup for Experiment 3 operations. Rodent Research-Demonstration 1 (RR-D1) validates equipment and procedures for surgical techniques related to the wound healing process. Normal skin function and wound healing are important for maintaining good health, but spaceflight may impair healing of wounds in astronauts.  Results from this investigation are intended to support design of a subsequent study on the effects of spaceflight on wound healing.
Systems
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew R&R’d the Pre-Treat Tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution; a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) Tether Repair: The crew repaired and secured the QD clip tethers on the PBA cylinder assembly. PBAs are stowed in specified locations throughout the U.S. and international modules and provide breathable O2, eye/nose/mouth protection, and two-way communications to a crewmember during a fire, rapid depressurization, or toxic spill event.
Acoustic Monitoring:  Crew-worn acoustic monitors were set up and distributed to two crewmembers onboard the ISS and used to take sound measurements experienced by the crew. The acoustic monitoring sessions gather data to characterize any changes to the acoustic environment throughout the station.

