ISS On-Orbit Status 09/29/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     &gt;&gt;&gt;Today 22 years ago (1988), STS-26/Discovery launched with the all-veteran crew of Fredrick Hauck, Richard Covey, John Lounge, George Nelson and David Hilmers.   It was the Return-to-Flight mission after the Challenger disaster on January 28, 1986.&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
 At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR Wheelock &amp; FE-6 Walker continued their current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 5<sup>th</sup> for both of them, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Upon wake-up, Doug Wheelock performed a new session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 Yurchikhin set up the equipment for another run of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment of the MAI-75 Imagery Transmission experiment, part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops.  This is essentially an ARISS (Amateur Radio from ISS) ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver &amp; Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking selected photographic images to the ground station at MAI.  Later in the day, the test radio session was terminated.  To date, there have been 9 runs with MAI-75 on board the ISS.     [The payload is named after the renowned MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute) whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]
 
 Later, Fyodor continued for several hours with the installation and configuring of the new PCE (Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) for the European ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) in the SM (Service Module) on panel 226 (left surface of medical cabinet), supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band.     [Activities included completing connections on the BUAP/Antenna Switching Control Unit, installing the ATV PU/Control Panel and space-to-space radio “Monoblock” (PCE Z0000), and finally making cable connections on the Monoblock.]
 
 The BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry system &amp; VD-SU control mode were turned on again afterwards and the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator was reactivated by ground commanding, with Yurchikhin monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [Temperature is checked twice, about 3-4 minutes apart, with the MultiMeter with temperature probe.  The standard manual check is required because the gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) in the O<sub>2</sub> line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup. Elektron had to be turned off while the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system &amp; VD-SU control mode were temporarily deactivated for the MBRL PU &amp; Z0000 installation.]
 
 FE-6 Walker &amp; CDR Wheelock finished up on the T-hose installation at the WRS WPA (Water Recovery System / Water Processor Assembly) in Node-3, with some ground commanding stepping in temporarily to purge air from the sections of the tee.  Due to some difficulty with rack rotation, the crew lost about 3 hrs.     [For rotating the WRS-1 rack back to the wall, pivot fittings had to be re-installed and knee braces disengaged.  Potable water will be available again, when the lines have been flushed after the purge.]
 
 Doug &amp; Shannon also continued the IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the T2 treadmill rack which received a new PAU (Power Avionics Unit) yesterday.    [Activities include moving the rack back from its overnight stowage in Node-2 and installing it at its nominal location in Node-3 (rack bay F5), followed by rack rotation and re-installation of all T2 VIS (Vibration Isolation System) hardware components, but due to the additional time required for the WPA T-hose job, the two crewmembers will likely not be able to finish the T2 IFM (Inflight Maintenance) today.]
 
 The CDR moved three urine-filled EDV-U containers (#963, #874, #922) to the DC-1 Docking Compartment to await being offloaded by Yurchikhin to the Progress 37P Rodnik tanks.
 
 FE-6 worked on the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) unit(s), removing the batteries from the battery compartment.    [These i-STAT units were recalled by the manufacturer when it was found that the batteries can overheat due to a component failure within the analyzer circuitry, becoming uncomfortably hot to touch in the battery compartment area.]
 
 Fyodor Yurchikhin performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 FE-5 also completed the quarterly maintenance inspection of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization), checking the exercise harnesses and SBS (Series Bungee System) bungees as well as the witness mark on the aft right stabilizer spring fastener (looking for potential dislocation).
 
 Doug Wheelock completed another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.    [This was the 27<sup>th</sup> session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
 Later, Wheels performed the periodic (weekly) status check &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) payload in the Lab.
 
 At ~11:30am EDT, Shannon &amp; Douglas joined in a PAO TV exchange with K-12 students from Parker Elementary School, Johnston Middle School, and Westbury high School in Houston, TX, fielding a range of questions.
 
 At ~2:30pm, Fyodor is scheduled for a PAO TV downlink to TsUP-Moscow, sending greetings from ISS to the participants in the Rhodes Youth Forum, to be held between October 3 &amp; 6 on the Greek island of Rhodes at the initiative of the World Public Forum “Dialog of Civilizations”.    [The Forum is part of the official UN Year of Youth Calendar.  Over 400 young people representing European countries, Russia, USA, CIS, African &amp; Asian nations (India, China), Brazil, Argentina, etc. got involved in making preparations for Forum 2010.  Over 60 youth organizations came out in support of holding the forum.]
 
 CDR &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Wheels at ~8:55am, Shannon at ~1:05pm.
 
 At ~4:10pm, Shannon is scheduled for her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Muscat, Oman (looking to the left of track for this capital city.  The city is located along the Persian Gulf coastline within mountainous terrain.  Overlapping frames of the urban and adjacent rural area were requested), Victoria, Seychelles (some scattered clouds may have been present at the time of this ISS nadir-viewing overpass.  The city of Victoria is located on the northeastern coastline of the island of Mahe.  Overlapping frames of Mahe [including the Victoria urban area] were requested), Nyiragongo Volcano, Rep. Congo (some cloud cover may have been present over this active volcano.  Nyiragongo is a large stratovolcano with a prominent summit crater.  The most recent activity includes production of minor ash and steam plumes.  Overlapping mapping frames of the volcano summit and flanks were requested.  Another active volcano, Nyamuragira, is located immediately to the northwest and is recognizable by its dark lava flows.  If visible, overlapping frames of this topographically lower shield volcano were also requested), Kigali, Rwanda (shortly after passing over the Nyiragongo Volcano, the crew had a nadir-viewing opportunity to photograph the city of Kigali.  The city presents fairly low contrast with the surrounding partially vegetated landscape, so the ground recommended overlapping mapping frames, taken along track, as the best approach to obtain imagery of the target), and Mississippi Delta Region (ISS had a nadir-viewing overpass of the eastern Mississippi River delta and Chandeleur Islands.  Overlapping mapping frames of the delta and islands were requested to assess the state of shorelines and vegetation).
 
 
