
SpaceX-4 Launch:  Weather prevented SpaceX from launching their Falcon 9 Rocket on Saturday from Cape Canaveral’s Launch Complex 40.  After a 24 hour scrub, they were able to launch on Sunday at 12:52am CDT. Once in orbit, the spacecraft’s solar arrays were successfully deployed and its Guidance, Navigation and Control (GNC) bay door was opened.  However, ground teams lost data from the vehicle’s Space Integrated Global Inertial Navigation System (SIGI) and were unable to recover the system. The vehicle still maintains the required 3 of 4 navigation sensors on-board to continue with rendezvous operations.
Dragon has started a series of phasing burns in order to setup a rendezvous with ISS tomorrow. The spacecraft is currently trailing ISS by 492 km and is 10 km below the ISS orbit.   Capture is scheduled to occur on Tuesday, 23 September at 6:04am CDT.
SpaceX-4 Preparation: Gerst and Wiseman performed their 3rd Dragon Robot On-Board Training (OBT) session today. The purpose of this session was to perform two Capture Point (CP) hold runs, allowing the Crew to practice free drift timing, malfunctions, nominal rate approaches, and as many 2 meter approaches as time allowed.
Rodent Research Transfer Review:  Wiseman and Gerst deferred their review of Rodent Research Animal Transfer material until tomorrow.
Aquatic Habitat (AQH) Pre Experiment Reconfiguration:  Gerst performed water exchange and configured the Aquatic habitat in preparation for the Zebrafish Muscle experiment arriving on 40S. The Zebrafish  Muscle Experiment  investigates whether atrophy of muscles under the condition of microgravity also occurs in Zebrafish and why atrophy occurs in the microgravity. Physical exercise and control of posture are important for maintaining muscle mass and strength. In simulated or actual microgravity, postural or anti-gravity muscles undergo substantial atrophy because of prominent decrease in the gravity-dependent reflection activity.
SPRINT Ultrasound :  Crew set up the ultrasound 2 equipment to support Wisemans Sprint FD 120 session.  The Ultrasound Muscle Volume Scan activities were performed with remote guidance from ground team. The Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
IVA Clothing:  Suraev continued his IVA clothing study. Sufficient cotton clothes for a crew of six adds more than 900 pounds of freight to the ISS. Replacing crew uniforms with non-cotton apparel could reduce weight for cargo launches and trash removal, and provide crewmembers with more comfortable, longer-lasting clothes. The IVA Clothing investigation assessed these different types of clothing for long duration wear.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Wiseman and Gerst worked on configuring EVA tools in preparation for upcoming EVA 27 for Pump Module (PM) relocation and Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA) installation, scheduled for October 7th.

