
Ocular Health Testing:  Lindgren and Yui have initiated their Flight Day 60 Ocular Health testing by performing vision and tonometry tests, taking blood pressure measurements, and completing a vision questionnaire.
 
Microbiome Investigation: Kelly completed survey questions and performed body sample collections for his Flight Day 180 session of the Microbiome investigation. Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Observation Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Sample Exchange: Kononenko performed an OASIS sample exchange today, installing the third of four sample cartridges into the experiment hardware housed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and in cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Yearly Maintenance:  Lindgren performed a thorough inspection of T2’s drive shaft, pulley teeth, motor, motor carriage bolts, motor belt, mounting screws, lateral belts, and clean the bearing housing.  All observations were photo documented and downlinked to the ground for analysis.  Once the maintenance was completed, T2 was powered up and is back in operation.
 
USOS Hatch Seal Inspections:  Lindgren cleaned and inspected USOS Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surfaces, and Hatch Handle Mechanisms.  Hatches targeted for today’s inspection included the Node 1 (Port, Stbd, Fwd, Aft), Lab (Fwd, Aft), Node 2 (Aft), and Node 3 (Nadir, Fwd).  Additional hatch inspections are scheduled to occur this Thursday, September 24th.
 
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Ops:  Kelly measured the acoustic environment in habitable areas of the ISS by taking sound level readings. Today’s measurements took place within Node 3, Cupola, MRM1, SM, and T2 operating at various speeds before the treadmill’s yearly maintenance.  One set of measurements, those following completion of the T2 yearly maintenance, were deferred to tomorrow due to crew time constraints.
 
Lab Bacteria Filter Change out:  As part of routine maintenance, Yui changed out six bacteria filters in Lab today.
 
Water Recovery System (WRS) Total Organic Compound Analyzer (TOCA) Results:  Today’s TOC level was 2932 µg/L.  This continues an upward trend, though currently still below the screening limit of 3000 µg/L.  The WRS Ion Exchange (IX) Bed and Microbial Check Valve (MCV) replacement are planned in early October and should help lower the TOC levels.  The date for the Multifiltration (MF) bed replacement is TBD.
 

