
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR)/ Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME):  In support of the ongoing s-Flame experiment, the crew replaced the fuel and oxidizer manifold bottles as well as the mass flow controller.  The purpose of s-Flame is to advance the ability to predict the structure and dynamics, including extinction and instabilities, of both soot-free and sooty flames. Results may contribute to the development of lean-burn engines for improved efficiency and reduced pollutant emissions here on Earth.  S-Flame is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME, which is designed to study gaseous flames.
GLACIER transfer:  The Rad Dorm samples, which were previously placed in MELFI due to GLACIER2 icing issues, were successfully transferred to GLACIER-3. The GLACIER units are used for this experiment since they are able to maintain the ultra-cold -160 deg C temps required by Rad Dorm.  The  investigation evaluates the biological impact of space radiation on the ISS to human and mouse cells. DNA damage and various cell functions are analyzed to determine how different cells respond to long-duration exposure to space radiation.
HERMES Vacuum Valve Open: In support of the ongoing investigation, the crew opened the manual valve for the HEMES vacuum system.  Hermes is an experimental microgravity facility that enables science experiments, microgravity exposure testing, testing of engineering components, testing of CubeSats, concept trials, and any payloads that fit within the Hermes design and operations constraints. It is open to any investigation that benefits from microgravity exposure. 
ISS HAM:  The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with the Children’s Inn at the NIH (National Institutes of Health), Bethesda, MD.  The Children’s Inn is an independent nonprofit that provides “a place like home” to families of children with rare or critical illnesses.  Some of the questions included how body tissues are affected by space, if hair grows faster in space, and if there are aliens in space.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Ring Shear Drop:  Following the completion of the calibration sample run, the crew set up the first science sample run for the experiment.  Once initiated, this sample will be processed for 120 hrs.  The Ring Sheared Drop investigation uses microgravity to examine the formation and flow of amyloids in the absence of surface tension and other complications created by the solid walls of a container. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues, amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
HRF Gas Delivery System (GDS) tank photo: The crew took photos of the pressure gauges on the HRF (Human Resources Facility) GDS Gas Cylinders which support the Portable PFS (Pulmonary Function System). This is a nominal, periodic requirement to monitor the pressures in the system.  The Portable PFS is an autonomous multi-user facility supporting a broad range of human physiological research experiments under the condition of weightlessness in the areas of respiratory, cardiovascular and metabolic physiology. Portable PFS also represents an evolution to the existing Pulmonary Function System (PFS) onboard the ISS.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM):  The crew gathered the appropriate hardware and set it up in Node 1 to begin the imaging session.  As of this report, a total of 204 schools representing 18,933 students from 26 countries have signed up to request images (4,005 image requests submitted so far).  A total of 4 Russian schools representing 108 students are signed up to participate in this mission. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
SPHERES Reswarm Test Run: The crew participated in a crew conference and performed the SPHERES reswarm science session.  Objectives for this session include the evaluation of the robustness of the algorithms in 6 Degree of Freedom dynamics. This was the final science session for the SPHERES hardware – the next generation satellite system known as Astrobee will take over the free-flier role.  Swarms of small spacecraft are expected to become feasible in the near future, creating a new range of capabilities for Earth and space observation missions. The ReSwarm control algorithms are applicable to swarms of small to femto-spacecraft. They scale easily with the formation size and remain applicable to multiple mission scenarios.
The ISS Experience:  The crew set up appropriate hardware to capture a Cupola setup for social recording of a crewmember reflecting on their time in space, returning to Earth, etc.  The ISS Experience was also used to capture the SPHERES reswarm science session.  The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Maintenance: The crew cleaned exhaust fan outlets behind the PWD. This preventative maintenance is required every 18 months.
 
