
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): A Vestibular Motion Sickness Questionnaire, Standard Measures (SM) pre-sleep questionnaires, and a SM Cognition test were performed in support of the CIPHER investigation. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE): The MISSE-18 science carriers were installed to on the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table. They will later be passed through the JEMAL and installed on the external MISSE Flight Facility. The MISSE facility provides a unique platform that is available for the private sector, as well as other government entities, to utilize applied materials testing or technical demonstrations. The primary Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth. Testing in low-Earth orbit (LEO) allows the integrated testing of how materials react to exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), atomic oxygen (AO), ionizing radiation, ultrahigh vacuum (UHV), charged particles, thermal cycles, electromagnetic radiation, and micro-meteoroids in the LEO environment.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Mission 85: The crew exchanged the currently installed 50mm camera lens for an 85mm camera lens. This activity is typically performed about halfway through an EarthKAM mission to give the students different options for their targets. Currently more than 9300 students from 22 countries are participating. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Sleep in Orbit: The experiment batteries were charged, and another overnight sleep recording session was performed. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG (electroencephalography) based sleep monitoring.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Resize: The crew performed a resize on EMU 3003, 3004, and 3013. This activity was completed in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval Extravehicular Activities (EVAs) in early October. The EMU is the space suit currently used by astronauts to perform EVAs from the ISS Joint Airlock. It is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Sampling Operations: Samples for microbial analysis were taken from the ISS air and surfaces using the Surface Sample Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS). These samples will be incubated on media slides and in Petri dishes, giving medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth in the air and on surfaces of the ISS. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants, microbial contaminants from crew members and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2) Exam Operations: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: The Russian Segment Lead and USOS Lead provided trainings for the newly arrived 70S Crew to familiarize them with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies. These OBTs provide refresher training to ensure the crew can act fast and efficiently should an emergency occur.
