
61 Soyuz (61S) Launch/Docking: 61S launched from Baikonur Cosmodrome at 8:57 AM CT and docked to the ISS at 2:42 PM CT. On board 61S was Oleg Skripochka, Jessica Meir, and Hazzaa Al Mansoori.  Al Mansoori is a Space Flight Participant who will be on the ISS until October 3, then returns to Earth onboard 58S. Al Mansoori’s mission is part of the United Arab Emirates Astronaut Program to train and prepare Emirati astronauts to travel to space on various scientific missions. Following docking, all nine crew members will participate in a crew safety briefing.
Food Acceptability survey: The crew completed their Food Acceptability Surveys using the Station Support Computer (SSC) Data Collection Tool.  This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
MatISS 2.5: The crew installed 2 MatISS sample holders at the predefined locations in the Columbus module.  The MATISS experiment investigates the antibacterial properties of materials in space for possible application in future spacecraft. MATISS is expected to provide additional insight into the mechanisms of attachment of biofilms in microgravity conditions. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Mission 67: The crew removed the 50mm camera lens and installed an 85mm lens.  This is a nominal activity typically conducted about halfway through the EarthKAM mission.  As of this report, 218 schools representing 20,643 students and 28 countries have signed up to request images (including 108 students from 4 Russian schools). 13,715 image requests have been submitted, 1,187 images have been downlinked, and 638 images have been posted to the web.  Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
The ISS Experience: The crew set up the hardware and captured the arrival of 61S and its crewmembers.  The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
High Definition Television Camera-Exposed Facility 2 (HDTV-EF2 ) Control Unit Installation:  The HDTV-EF2 control unit launched on NG-11 and was installed onto the JEM Airlock slide table today.  It will eventually be installed on the Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) Adapter #5 using the JEM Small Fine Arm.  HDTV-EF2 has the ability to smoothly track targets on the surface of the Earth, using its camera platform.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for upcoming P6 Battery EVAs, the crew performed the following:

Procedure reviews for tool configurations, cautions and warnings, sharp edge briefing, and battery upgrades.
Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software review. The crew configured DOUG to receive and display real time Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) joint angle telemetry from a PCS laptop as well as without joint angle telemetry.


