
Zebra Fish:  With the arrival of 40 Soyuz (40S), Wilmore transferred Zebrafish from the Fish Carrier to Fish fixation Aquariums to start the experiment in the Aquatic Habitat.  This experiment investigates if the atrophy of muscles under the condition of microgravity also occurs in zebrafish and why their atrophy occurs in the microgravity.
Dosimeter Installation:  Gerst installed 17 Dosimeters on various locations within the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) and Japanese Experiment Logistics Module – Pressurized Section (JLP) walls.  Once installed, he photo documented each of the Dosimeters. The Dosimeters continuously monitor the radiation dose aboard the ISS. Radiation exposure can have significant biological effects on living organisms, and on the biological investigations being done on ISS.
Cell Mechanosensing 2 (CMS-2): Gerst performed a medium exchange using “Meas Exp Solution Exchanger” and Medium Cassette and then set the samples on the microscope for the first observation. The ground has been unable to get video from the microscope.  Gerst performed some troubleshooting to ensure proper cable connections.  The ground will proceed with additional power cycles of the microscope to attempt to recover video. Cell Mechanosensing-2 is a continuing investigation to identify gravity sensors using several cultured cells and help develop countermeasures to muscle atrophy.  On the basis of the images obtained in orbit and from the chemically fixed cells on returning to Earth, the influence of gravity on the fine structures such as adherence, organelles will be assessed.
Experiment installations:  Gerst removed Nanoracks Modules 24, 31 and 50 from the Dragaon/SpaceX-4 today.  He installed these in Nanoracks Platform-2 along with Module 28 which was delivered on Dragon/SpaceX-4 and previously unloaded during double coldbag transfer.  Wilmore accepted the offload  from the Russian crew of the Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) #8 canisters delivered on 40 Soyuz and installed them into the Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF) in the Ryutai Rack.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Wiseman gathered EVA related hardware which arrived onboard 40S. In addition, Gerst and Wilmore started configuring the airlock, including removal of equipment that will not be needed for the upcoming EVA. Gerst also initiated a battery charger autocycle for the two new Extravehicluar Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) delivered on 40S.  EVA 27 will be performed for a Pump Module (PM) relocation and Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA) installation on October 7th.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Data Avionic Unit (DAU) Remove and Replaced (R&R): T2 has been experiencing connectivity issues between the Station Support Computer (SSC) and the T2 Rack.  The DAU contains a network switch that is believed to be failed.  Today the Crew performed an R&R of the T2 DAU.  Following the DAU R&R, a T2 power test was conducted that confirmed connectivity has been restored.  The ground team successfully uploaded new Command Logic Unit (CLU) software.  Wiseman put T2 in a temporary stow configuration at the end of the day.  Additional T2 alignment and checkout activities will need to be scheduled prior to nominal operations.  Meanwhile, the Crew is able to exercise on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  
Robotics Operations:  Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite (WS) 4 to WS6.  They then ungrappled the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from the SpaceX-4 Dragon Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) and maneuvered the SSRMS to an Overnight Park Position.  This was done in preparation for tomorrow’s activities.  Tomorrow Robotics Ground Controllers will unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2 and perform a survey of the SpaceX-4 Dragon Trunk.

