
Marrow:  Today a 52S crewmember conducted breath and ambient air sample collections for the Marrow investigation, which looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Sarcolab-3: A USOS subject conducted the knee protocol for Sarcolab-3. The subject ingressed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) chair, installed the knee Electromyography (EMG) electrodes and began the knee exercise protocol, while an operator collected ultrasound images of the subject’s right leg. The crew deconfigured and stowed MARES, which was originally on the timeline for next Monday. Today’s activity concludes five consecutive days of joint research, where three crewmembers conducted a series of ankle and knee configuration exercises.  The data collected for Sarcolab-3 will be compared to pre and post flight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss.  Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): Today a 52S crewmember collected blood sample collections in support of the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. With operator assistance, the subject is collecting blood samples and the samples will be processed for double spin operations using the Refrigerated Centrifuge prior to being placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples are obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. 

Advanced NanoStep: The crew completed setup activities prior to installing the Advanced NanoStep cartridge in the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF). JAXA’s Advanced NanoStep experiment investigates the relationship between impurity incorporation mechanisms and the quality of obtained protein crystals should be clarified for the progress to an “advanced” stage of the space utilization for structure-based drug design. In this mission, we observe the protein crystal growth surfaces of glucose isomerase crystals in space in the presence of various impurities with the use of a Michelson interferometer. In addition, we also clarify the crystal surface morphology on the molecular step level by using the laser confocal microscope. We evaluate the crystal quality of the returned crystals. 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Chamber Cap Removal and Cartridge Installation:  The crew removed the ELF chamber cap from the chamber hole and installed the sample cartridge. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by container less processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Cable Re-clock: During last week’s LMM control box replacement, two cables were left disconnected due to physical interference of back shells on adjacent power/data cables. Today, the crew re-clocked the connector that mates to the LMM Control Box to remove the interference of the cable connection. LMM is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the International Space Station (ISS). 
Device for the study of Critical Liquids and Crystallization (DECLIC) Hose Reseat: The crew removed and reconnected the DECLIC supply and return hoses to troubleshoot the moderate temperature loop flow issues to the DECLIC Directional Solidification Insert (DSI). DECLIC is a multi-user facility utilized to study transparent media and their phase transitions in microgravity onboard the International Space Station (ISS). The DSI portion of the DECLIC multi-user facility experiment will study a series of benchmark experiments on transparent alloys that freeze like metals under microgravity onboard the International Space Station (ISS) using SCN (succinonitrile-a transparent organic substance in the liquid state that is used to study the phenomena related to solidification processes) based alloys. The DSI insert will be installed for the second run of the three series of DECLIC experiments.
RED Camera Calibration: The crew created calibration files for the RED Dragon Camera in support of the Earth Imagery from ISS investigation. The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation will help create a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.

