
Payloads:
Astrobee: The crew performed steps to replace an Astrobee docking station memory card. Astrobee is made up of free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations. 
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew continued to remove and replace the science module and heat exchanger components of the CAL experiment system. Today’s work continued the check and cleaning of additional fiber-optic connectors. This work is expected to continue all week and the goal is to replace the aging science module 3 with the new science module 3B. CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew performed blood pressure measurements, pneumotonometry, and ultrasound measurements in support of the CIPHER investigation. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Systems:
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed training using virtual reality to refamiliarize themselves with the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER). Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space. The crew also performed On-Board Training (OBT) to review operation of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS). These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and the Radio Frequency Group (RFG) retrieval EVAs scheduled for early October. 
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Operations: The crew performed various operations within the BEAM. Activities completed include unstowing and restowing items in the Node 3 Aft, ingressing to the BEAM, stowing items in the BEAM, reconfiguring the Distributed Impact Detection System (DIDS) D sensor, and egressing from the BEAM. The crew was able to retrieve the spare Trundle Bearing Assembly (TBA) that will be used to replace an existing TBA during the RFG retrieval EVA this October.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle, loading items like common trash for disposal. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until later this year before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
