
Group Combustion Module (GCM) Installation:  Today, FE-5 with the assistance of FE-6, started the first of two days of installation and preparation for the GCM experiment.  The crew began with assembly of the GCM attaching cameras and the Fuel Supply Syringe.  Following GCM setup, the crew then began configuration of the Combustion Chamber attaching the necessary valves and filters.  The GCM will then be installed into the Combustion Chamber.  The Elucidation of Flame Spread and Group Combustion Excitation Mechanism of Randomly-distributed Droplet Clouds (Group Combustion) investigation by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets.  In the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the Kibo module, droplets of decane, a component of gasoline or kerosene, are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads.  Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made.
Hard to Wet Surfaces:  FE-6 performed the battery charging activities for the Hard to Wet Surfaces payload.  Later today, the crew will verify the configuration and field of view of the camera used to collect data of the payload.  The Hard to Wet Surfaces (Eli Lilly-Hard to Wet Surfaces) investigation studies how certain materials used in the pharmaceutical industry dissolve in water while in microgravity.  Results from this investigation could help improve the design of tablets that dissolve in the body to deliver drugs, thereby improving drug design for medicines used in space and on Earth. 
Marangoni Experiment (Dynamic Surf 3):  Last week ground controllers performed an Image Processing Unit (IPU) video check and determined the front cover fasteners required tightening.  FE-5 performed the tightening over the weekend and subsequent IPU checks confirmed a good configuration to resume Dynamic Surf operations.  Last night, ground controllers initiated the first of two overnight of the Marangoni sessions in the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF).  The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments studying Marangoni convection driven by the presence of surface tension gradients produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface.  By observing and understanding how a silicone oil liquid bridge moves, researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE) Survey:  Today, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the SSRMS to the survey position for LEE B.  The EHDC was then used to survey the LEE Snare cables as it was done last Monday, but with different points of view and optimizing the lighting conditions for still imagery.  SSRMS performance today was nominal. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) Replacement:  This morning the crew changed out the Urine Hose and Receptacle that was installed yesterday, recovering WHC functionality.  Yesterday, after the crew replaced the Urine Hose and Receptacle as part of regularly scheduled maintenance, the WHC Pump Separator unexpectedly continued to run after the crew closed a urine valve.  After cycling the valve, the Pump Separator did turn off.  WHC is approved for use at this time.
JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) and Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL) Installation on Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (A/L) Slide Table:  FE-6 ingressed Pressurized Mating Adapter-2 (PMA2), retrieved the JOTI hardware, and installed the JOTI on the JEM A/L Slide Table.  Afterwards, the crew installed the Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL) onto the JOTI, and retracted the Slide Table inside the JEM A/L.  RELL is a technology demonstration designed to locate external ISS ammonia (NH3) leaks.  Prior to using it for locating actual leaks, an on-orbit test needs to be performed to understand the background environment of ISS and how that affects leak locating.  This on-orbit test will be scheduled later in Increment 49.

