
Ocular Health:  Lindgren and Yui continued with their Flight Day 60 Ocular Health activities this morning by performing their Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), each acting as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO) for the other.  Later in the day, the crew performed fundoscopy, again taking turns as the CMO.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Cognition:  Kelly performed his Flight Day 180 session of the Cognition experiment. Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Twins Study:  Kelly collected Flight Day 180 physical samples today in support of the Twins Study.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
HTV Cargo Transfer Status:  Yui and Lindgren continued working on HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today. Cargo specialist estimate the crew will need approximately 1 hour to complete the HTV-5 cargo operations.
 
44 Soyuz (44S) Emergency Descent Drill:  Kelly, Volkov, and Kornienko participated in an emergency decent drill this morning. This training session focused on off-nominal procedures that would be used in the event the crew needed to egress the ISS and perform an emergency descent.
 
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Ops:  Lindgren obtained acoustic readings of Treadmill 2 (T2) at various speeds which will be compared to the readings Kelly took yesterday before the T2 Yearly Maintenance.
 
Possible Conjunction with Object #81934:  Ground teams are evaluating tracking data for a possible conjunction with object #81934. The time of closest approach is Wednesday, 23 September at 1:03pm CDT. Concern level on the item is currently high and teams are evaluating the potential for a Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM).
 
 

