
Cygnus Status: After discontinuing rendezvous attempts on Monday, Cygnus continues to phase away from ISS on a coelliptic trajectory. As of 10:00 a.m. CDT, Cygnus was trailing ISS 4 km above and 850 km behind.  Uplink of the Relative Global Positioning System (RGPS) Software Patch and associated re-integration of the Cygnus Flight Computers is scheduled to occur this evening NET 10:00 p.m. CDT.  During the day today, data from Cygnus was downlinked to support anomaly resolution activities.  Until root cause of the processor exceptions is understood, the software patch will not be uplinked.  Orbital has been able to replicate the on-orbit signature using multiple ground simulators. Data from pre-flight, long duration spacecraft tests is also being reviewed.  NASA and Orbital teams will continue to discuss the situation and resolution plan over the next few days.  Teams are protecting for a re-rendezvous attempt NET Saturday, 28 September.
Mobile Servicing System Status: Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from the Orbital-Demonstration 1 (Orb-D1) High Hover Position to the Orb-D1 Park Position.  This was done to move the Tip Latching End Effector out of the Velocity Vector.  The SSRMS will be maneuvered back to the Orb-D1 High Hover Position prior to the commencement of the Cygnus spacecraft rendezvous with ISS.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment Runs:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano completed the 32nd, 33rd, and 34th InSPACE-3 runs out of a total of 42 runs planned for this experiment series.  InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state by the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1 Sample Setup: Parmitano reviewed reference materials and set up and adjusted a camera to highlight crystal growth and obtain optimal images for the BCAT C1 experiment run planned for this Friday. The CSA BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in a liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions have the unique property that the particles phase separate and the particles self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light. Photographing these samples in microgravity allows the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study allows the development of new insights into this important material process.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLVTA) Remove and Replace (R&R): For the first time on orbit, Parmitano attempted to perform preventative maintenance to R&R the WLVTA on EMU Serial Number 3010. Complications were expierenced with the removal of the HUT Tube Shield and the activity was subsequently deferred. Meanwhile, ground teams will evaluate photographes taken by the crew and modify procedures accordingly.

