
Payloads
Astrobee:  The crew unpacked and visually inspected the Queen Bee Astrobee Free Flyer components.  The Free Flyer was activated, and the crew assisted the ground team with component and communications checkout and calibration. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
BioMole: A crewmember performed a surface swab sampling of ISS surfaces to identify bacteria by extracting DNA using mini-PCR 16. The Environmental Health System (EHS) Biomole Facility non-culture-based samples can provide microbial identification on-orbit within days of sampling. The goal of this Tech Demo is to conduct comparative analysis for possible replacement of current microbial monitoring systems.
Dreams: A crewmember retrieved the Dreams Dry-EEG Headband and performed a battery charging and setup. The Headband will be donned prior to sleeping. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders, can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM):  A crewmember performed the EarthKAM hardware setup in the Node 2 Nadir Hatch, mounted the D2Xs Camera on a Multi-use Bracket facing out the Nadir Hatch Window, and initiated the EarthKAM software. A test image was taken.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective.  Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS.  This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges, and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Microbial Tracking-3:  A crewmember collected ISS surface samples while photographing each location and placed the samples into cold stowage. The Quantifying Selection for Pathogenicity and Antibiotic Resistance in Bacteria and Fungi on the ISS – a Microbial Tracking Study (Microbial Tracking-3 or MT-3) investigation continues a series focused on ongoing monitoring of pathogenicity (ability to cause disease) and antibiotic resistance in potentially disease-causing bacteria and fungi present on the ISS.  The investigation aims to identify, analyze, and characterize pathogenicity, antibiotic resistance, and genomics to augment the NASA GeneLab with the statistical confidence to characterize microbes associated with closed habitation and predict those that may pose a threat to crew health.
Plant Habitat-04: A crewmember removed plant litter (detritus), photographed developing peppers, and hand-pollinated all open flowers.  Inspection of the plant support rods and twist ties was performed, and the IR Sensor Arm was repositioned.  Microgravity Growth of New Mexico Hatch Green Chile as a Technical Display of Advanced Plant Habitat’s Capabilities (Plant Habitat-04) demonstrates using the Advanced Plant Habitat (APH) by growing peppers in space for the first time. An excellent source of Vitamin C, peppers are more difficult to cultivate than many possible space crops because they take longer to germinate, grow, and develop fruit. The investigation includes microbial analysis to improve understanding of plant-microbe interactions in space and assessment of flavor and texture, which vary based on the growth environment and care such as amount of watering.
Systems
Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Desiccant Wheel Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew removed and replaced the failed Desiccant Wheel in TAS. The Thermal Amine System tests a method of removing carbon dioxide (CO2) from air aboard the ISS using actively heated and cooled amine beds. Controlling CO2 levels on the station reduces the likelihood of crew members experiencing symptoms of CO2 buildup, which include fatigue, headache, breathing difficulties, strained eyes, and itchy skin. The system includes elements that reduce loss of water vapor and recovers CO2 for use in electrolysis to produce oxygen.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: Today, the crew set up the recycle tank to drain to a ЕДВ-У. Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, and repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill. The crew also swapped the ЕДВ in the offload ЕДВ spot of the UTS.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Operations: Today, the ISS crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water.  The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Four Bed CO2 Scrubber (4BCO2) Adlink Deployment: The crew deployed and powered the Adlink Mini-PC for 4BCO2. 4BCO2 demonstrates a technology for removing carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based off of the current system in use on the ISS, but with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, valves, and an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation. A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure. This technology is a step toward that goal.

