
Cygnus Rendezvous, Capture, and Berth: On Saturday, Cygnus successfully completed an early Relative Global Positioning System (RGPS) PROX checkout and demonstrated the vehicle’s ability to rely on RGPS for targeting of the coelliptic transfer and approach initiation maneuvers.   Phasing burns ADV1-3 were all completed nominally enabling successful demonstration of the Autonomous REA Maneuver objective, which showed thrusters provide adequate performance to achieve the required Delta-V necessary during Joint Operations.  In addition, Cygnus completed the LIDAR demonstration objective which was required for Cygnus to leave the 250m hold point.
Today, Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg and FE-5 Parmitano monitored Cygnus’s approach from the Cupola Robotics Work Station and sent commands to Cygnus via the Proximity Communications System (PROX) Hardware Command Panel (HCP).  The commands were sent in order to demonstrate Cygnus’s ability to retreat and hold.  Once those demos were successfully performed, the spacecraft was authorized to enter the Keep Out Sphere (200m radius surrounding ISS) for its final approach towards ISS. Nyberg and Parmitano subsequently captured Cygnus using the SSRMS at approximately 06:01am CDT.  Once captured, Cygnus was maneuvered into position to inspect the Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) followed by a maneuver to install it on the Node-2 Nadir Active CBM. During the capture, latching, and mating process, the Tip LEE unexpectedly safed itself just as the capture process came to an end.  The Robotics Ground Controllers recalibrated the Tip LEE permitting the Crew to complete the latching and mating processes.
Following Cygnus berthing, the crew performed pressurized vestibule leak checks, Node 2 hatch outfitting, and Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) removal in preparation for Cygnus hatch opening.  Hatch opening is scheduled to start at ~03:05am CDT Monday, 30 September.
The Cygnus command and telemetry path is now configured for 1553 via ISS.  Ground teams initially experienced difficulties observing the 1553 telemetry.  However, after reviewing the onboard configuration, the issue was attributed to a dropped Cygnus command.  MCC-D resent the command to configure Cygnus for 1553 telemetry packets and resolved the issue.  PROX has since been deactivated.

