
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew gained access to the BFF interior and performed steps to unclog the Smart Pump Tips and installed Bio-Ink Syringes. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Cold Atom Lab science (CAL): The crew began looking for a missing fiber-optic cleaning kit.  Once located, a fiber optic dry run and other preparatory activities will be performed in support of the CAL science module 3B work this week.  CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Cardiobreath:  A Cardiobreath science session was performed, which includes Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise while wearing the Bio-Monitor system.  For efficiency, this Cardiobreath session was combined with a Space Health session since both experiments use the Bio-Monitor system.  The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health.  Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed in support of this continuing investigation. Circadian Light tests a new lighting system, compared to current lighting aboard the ISS, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
ISS Ham: A Ham Radio pass was supported with Colegio Educación del Talento, Yerba Buena, Tucumán, Argentina.  The school aims to provide a comprehensive education which trains good, intelligent, sensitive, creative people. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM)/FLARE: The crew continued the installation of the SCEM experiment facility hardware into the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack 1 (MSPR1) work volume.  Following a checkout, SCEM will be used to support the FLARE experiment.  Fundamental Research on International Standard of Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions (FLARE), a JAXA investigation, explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Sleep in Orbit: An overnight recording session was performed for the Sleep in Orbit experiment. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG (electroencephalography) based sleep monitoring.
Systems:
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER): The crew performed training using virtual reality to refamiliarize themselves with the SAFER. Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew conducted routine maintenance to R&R the WHC UR and IF. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance. The UR On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) consists of a replaceable Russian-supplied funnel, urine hose, and a receptacle switch for turning the WHC on/off and the associated wiring.
Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Ultrasound Scan: The crew used the ultrasound device to perform a VTE scan.  This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
