
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Removal: FE-5 removed the NanoRack deployer from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table, following the successful deployments of 8 DoveSat satellites last week.  The next use of the JEMAL will be for Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL), which aims to demonstrate that commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) products can be adapted for effective spacecraft external leak location. In the near future, such instruments may be further developed not only to find leaks but also verify repairs have effectively fixed them.
Plant Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Regulation Harvest: FE-6 performed the second harvest of the Plant RNA Regulation experiment by removing the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Seed Cassettes from EMCS Rotors A and B stowing them in an EMCS Cold Stowage Pouch.  The removed cassettes were then stowed in MELFI.  Compared to plants grown on the ground, plants grown in space experience broad changes in gene expression, which affects how they grow and develop.  The Plant RNA Regulation investigation studies the first steps of gene expression involved in development of roots and shoots. Scientists expect to find new molecules that play a role in how plants adapt and respond to the microgravity environment of space, which provides new insight into growing plants for food and oxygen supplies on long-duration missions.
MultiOmics Collection: FE-5 performed sampling in support of the JAXA MultiOmics experiment.  Various samples are collected and stowed in MELFI four times throughout the crew’s on-orbit duration in addition to a questionnaire and ingestion of fructooligosaccharide (FOS).  The objective of MultiOmics is to understand the gut ecosystem of astronauts in the space environment, especially focusing on the immune dysfunction, and to evaluate the impact of fructooligosaccharide (FOS). 
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Return to Operations:  Today, the crew installed a vacuum hose to a component of the MCA, allowing the component to be pumped down to vacuum. This is required to return the Lab MCA to an operational state.  Last week, the crew attempted unsuccessfully to install the vacuum hose from an adjacent rack to the Rack Interface Panel (RIP) located on the rack containing the MCA. There were interference issues on the adjacent rack which prevented installation of the hose. An alternative rack location was identified, and the crew successfully installed the vacuum hose from this new location to the rack containing the MCA. The MCA has been pumped down to vacuum, and the crew reconfigured the MCA for nominal operations. A calibration of the MCA will be scheduled at a later time. 

