
Payloads
Astrobee:  The crew powered on the Astrobee systems and cleared stowed items from the Astrobee area.  Following this, ground teams performed ground commanding to further checkout and prepare Astrobee for support of the upcoming Kibo Robot Programming Challenge.  Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations. 
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML):  In support of the on-going EML science operations, the crew closed the argon gas valve and opened the helium valve.  The EML is a 360 kg multi-user facility designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.  EML can accommodate up to 18 samples, each 5 to 8 mm in size.  Heating rates of up to 100 Kelvin per second can be achieved with a maximum temperature of 2,100°C.
Vection:  In preparation for later science activities, the crew replaced a foam neck brace pad.  This routine maintenance is performed as-needed.  Vection is made up of 3 tasks that test how orientation perception, motion processing, and depth perception are affected by long duration 0g and return to 1g. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Systems
Environmental Health System (EHS) Operations:  Today, the ISS crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water.  The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is safe for crew consumption.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exams: Today, the 62S crew completed the third day of routine eye exams using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue. In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Cygnus Rendezvous On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for the Northrop Grumman (NG)-14 launch currently planned on September 29th and berth on October 3rd, today the crew completed this proficiency training covering the mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding Cygnus. The crew also participated in a conference with ground specialists to review the NG-14 OBT plan and receive extra details from the ground specialists.

