
Twins Study Influenza Vaccine and Sample Collection:  Kelly self-administered an influenza vaccine and collected Flight Day 180 blood and urine samples today in support of the Twins Study.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
Cognition:  Yui and Lindgren performed their Flight Day 65 sessions of the Cognition experiment today. Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Journals:  Kelly completed a Journal activity today. Journals obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information to help prepare for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Cardio Ox:  Kelly and Lindgren, with assistance from Yui, collected blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of their carotid and brachial arteries.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans are obtained at the same time points and through 5 years after landing.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) Pressurization and Leak Check:  In preparation for Lindgren’s removal of the JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) from the JEMAL Slide Table tomorrow, today Yui pressurized the JEMAL and performed a leak check.
 
Sound Level Measurements in the Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU):  Yui installed the MHU Interface Unit in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and then took sound level measurements inside the Interface Unit with a sound level meter.  These measurements will provide an indication of the sound levels that mice in the MHU will be exposed to during JAXA’s Mouse Epigenetics experiment, which will be performed after the mice arrive on a visiting vehicle in the future.
Galley Rack Secure:  Today, Lindgren installed a Knee Brace Assembly at the NOD1P4 location in order to permanently secure the Galley Rack.  Due to structural interference, the Galley Rack was temporarily secured last week on September 15th.  Hardware needed for Galley Rack activation is scheduled to arrive on a later flight. Once in operation, the Galley Rack will provide ISS Crews with a consolidated location for a potable water dispenser, two freezers, two food warmers, and a 16 port Ethernet switch.
 
United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) Hatch Seal Inspections:  Kelly cleaned and inspected USOS Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surfaces, and Hatch Handle Mechanisms.  Hatches targeted for today’s inspection included the Airlock, Node 3 (Nadir, Forward, Starboard) JLP, JPM (Starboard, Zenith), and PMM.
 
Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) Troubleshooting:  Last night, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to perform RMCT checkouts.  These operations, which will continue later this evening, are being performed to help determine if the RMCT1 torque anomaly seen earlier this year is in any way related to it being stowed on SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA)-1.
 

