
Soyuz (36S): Launch and Docking: Flight Engineer (FE)-1 Kotov, FE-2 Ryazanskiy, and FE-3 Hopkins launched on 36S from the Baikonur, Kazahkstan Cosmodrome at 3:58pm CDT, 25 September.  36S performed a nominal four-orbit rendezvous then docked to the Mini-Research Module (MRM)-2 port at 9:45pm CDT, returning the ISS to a full 6-crew complement.  Following hatch opening at 11:35pm CDT, the entire crew participated in a welcome ceremony and a safety briefing.
Cygnus Status: Cygnus systems remain healthy as the vehicle phases outbound on a coelliptic trajectory that is 4km above ISS and trailing by approximately 1700km.  MCC-Dulles performed two separate attitude tests today, commanding Cygnus to free drift in order to characterize the optimal communications attitude in preparation for the RGPS flight software patch upload and integration.  RGPS software patch integration onto Cygnus Flight Computers is scheduled to occur overnight. Rendezvous with ISS is being planned NET Sunday, 29 September.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment Runs:  FE-6 Nyberg conducted the 35th and 36th InSPACE-3 runs out of a total of 42 runs planned for this experiment series.  InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state by the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Materical Science Laboratory (MSL) Solidification and Quench Furnace (SQF) Sample Cartridge Exchange:  FE-5 Parmitano removed a used sample cartridge from the SQF and replaced it with a Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST)-2 test sample that will be processed in mid October, 2013. MICAST-2 is an ESA investigation that aims to deepen the quantitative understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. In these experiments, the influence of a rotating magnetic field on the solidification process is also investigated. Microgravity offers a unique opportunity to obtain well-controlled solidification conditions for these alloys.
Ice Crystal-2 Troubleshooting:  Nyberg removed Ice Cell 2 from the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) and then installed Facet Cell onto the SCOF Cell Stage with Kapton Tape for Ice Crystal 2 troubleshooting. Results from the troubleshooting are expected to indicate whether the source of an issue with Peltier commanding for temperature control lies with the SCOF or Ice Crystal hardware. JAXA’s  Ice Crystal-2 investigation examines the growth rates and stability of ice crystals in supercooled water including antifreeze glycoprotein.

