
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): Closeout of the week-long activities to replace science module 3 with science module 3B was initiated and will be completed next week. CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time. 
Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE): The MISSE-17 science carriers were removed from the JEMAL slide table and prepared for return.  They have spent approximately 6 months exposed to the external environment on the external MISSE Flight Facility (MISSE FF).  The MISSE FF provides a unique platform that is available for the private sector, as well as other government entities, to utilize applied materials testing or technical demonstrations. The primary MISSE FF platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth. Testing in Low-Earth Orbit (LEO) allows the integrated testing of how materials react to exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), atomic oxygen (AO), ionizing radiation, ultrahigh vacuum (UHV), charged particles, thermal cycles, electromagnetic radiation, and micro-meteoroids in the LEO environment.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4):  The crew reviewed the familiarization package to prepare for PK-4 science activities. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and Roscosmos, performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Systems:
ISS Reboost: The ISS performed a reboost using the SM Aft Progress 85P rendezvous and docking (R&D) thrusters. This was the first of four reboosts to set up conditions for Progress 86P launch later this year. The burn duration was 6 minutes 12 seconds with a delta-V of 0.55 m/s.
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs in October. They completed an EMU Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub, an EVA Battery Removal, an EMU Water Recharge, and an EMU Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LCVG) Water Fill. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and Radio Frequency Group (RFG) retrieval EVAs scheduled for early October.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R) with Fan Filter Cleaning: The crew performed an R&R on the PWD’s filter and cleaned the exhaust fans’ outlets as part of preventive maintenance. The PWD filter On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) is composed of a de-iodination and microbial filter, which needs periodic replacement.
Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) Track and Capture (T&C) Self Study: The crew completed On-Board Training (OBT) with the ROBoT. OBT is required for the crew to maintain Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) proficiency, which is a vital robotic arm on the outside of the ISS that is used for tasks like EVA translation and capturing visiting vehicles. The ground team is also available to assist the crew if any real-time issues arise during SSRMS operations.
