ISS On-Orbit Status 09/27/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      
 
FE-4 Sergei Volkov performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
CDR Mike Fossum serviced the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) experiment, checking camera operations during the day and changing the camera battery in the morning and before sleeptime (change required after 8 hrs).        [The new experiment session is with a Harvard University phase separation sample using a different setup than for the recent crystal samples 9 &amp; 10, mainly requiring an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop with EarthKAM timing software, power cables and camera USB cable.  For illumination, the Mini-MagLite and Flash batteries do not need to be changed yet, but the camera will need a freshly charged battery.  After Mike started the run on 9/21 by mixing the sample (#4) for phase separation and taking test photos, the EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) software on the SSC-13 laptop began taking pictures of Sample 4 for 13 days at different intervals throughout the run.  This requires camera battery changes twice a day and image check with a battery change once per day.  BCAT-5 is operating in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) because some time ago the crew deemed the US Lab too crowded for running it.]
 
As his first activity of the day, FE-5 Satoshi Furukawa conducted Part 1 of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol, distributing crew-worn acoustic dosimeters from the SMK (Sound Measurement Kit) to the Increment 29 crew, i.e., Mike (#1011), Sergei (#1012) &amp; himself (#2013), for a 24-hr data take.
 
Volkov continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today working ~2h20m in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) cleaning the grilles of interior panels 201, 301 &amp; 401, followed by the vent screens of panels 116, 316, 231 &amp; 431.
 
Afterwards, Sergei conducted another 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of bio-luminescent glow of high-production zones in the Indian Ocean, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
The CDR performed maintenance in the Lab, removing &amp; replacing three failed LHA (Lamp Housing Assembly) units at Overhead locations P1, P2 &amp; S3.
 
At ~9:15am, Fossum set up the video camcorder, reviewed a suggested script message and then recorded an HD (high definition) Podcast session with the CSA (Canadian Space Agency) experiment VASCULAR which had originally been planned for Increment 27 (Ron Garan) as a Voluntary Weekend Science event.      [In micro-G, human cardiovascular health would rapidly decrease without regular daily exercise<a name="_GoBack"></a>.  The ISS serves as a sophisticated orbiting lab to conduct science experiments on the human body’s reactions to weightlessness.  One of these key studies is the Canadian experiment called VASCULAR of the University of Waterloo which studies the long-term effects of micro-G on the cardiovascular system.  In space, blood vessels become stiffer and lose their elasticity. This can change blood pressure and affect blood flow to vital organs such as the brain and kidney.  Selected long-term ISS crewmembers provide blood samples, to be analyzed on the ground for unique protein and hormone markers that could accelerate vascular aging.  The results of VASCULAR will offer better understanding of the inner mechanisms of cardiovascular changes during long-duration space missions. The findings can also help people who suffer from premature cardiovascular aging right now back home on Earth.  Podcast: a series of digital media files (either audio or video) that are released episodically and downloaded through web syndication or on demand.] 
 
Afterwards, Mike turned on MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) routing and started the playback to the ground of the recorded VASCULAR Podcast video for about 2 hrs, with POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) routing the on-board HRDL (High-Rate Data Link) system.
 
FE-4 completed the daily inspection of the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, verifying proper watering of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules.     [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
Volkov later performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.        [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Sergei also took care of the daily IMS (Integrated Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
With the G1 HD camcorder set up in Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) for downlinking his activity, Furukawa conducted another ~4h “LEGO Bricks” EPO (Education Payload Activity) session in the JPM MWA (Maintenance Work Area), completing a partially built Lego ISS model from a guide book for ground audiences.        [The MWA Containment System was required since Lego bricks can only be exposed to the open cabin air for a maximum of 2 hrs due to restrictions for flammable materials.  After the demo recording, the MWA equipment was restowed.] 
 
After setting up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) for real-time ground monitoring, Satoshi later conducted the periodic inspection of the DM (Desiccant Module) of the CWSA (Condensate Water Separator Assembly) to check on its drying ability and to replace it with a spare if required.
 
Mike had about 2 hrs for reviewing, setting up and conducting the NASA EPO demo “Gyroscopes”, with Satoshi assisting with the video recording.       [The “Gyroscopes” demo is intended to give 10<sup>th</sup> – 12<sup>th</sup> grade students a better understanding of the conservation of angular momentum, of gyroscopes and how they stabilize the ISS.  The demo was timed so that EPO personnel on the ground could view and support it as it was performed.]
 
Other activities completed by CDR Fossum included –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:windowtext;mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">The periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose;  [after the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged],</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">The periodic check of the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) exercise machine’s four isolators for wear &amp; tear, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Completing his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application;  [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies].</li></ul> 
In the FGB, FE-4 Volkov undertook a 2-hr inspection, with documentary photography, of structural shell elements, with documentary photography using the NIKON D2X digital camera.       [After clearing cargo stowage from panels 110 &amp; 111, Sergei focused on the space behind panels 420, 422, 220, 222, 111, 312, 314, 315 &amp; 310 and inspected the shell ring, TCS (Thermal Control, System) pipelines and cabling behind the panels for stains, moisture and the metal condition in terms of color and cavities.  If cavities were found, Sergei was to clean them with wipes and measure the depth (using chewing gum).  Afterwards, removed cargo was restowed at 110 &amp; 111.]
 
After yesterday’s purging &amp; inerting of Section 2 of the SrPK (air supply tankage) of Progress M-10M/42P with N<sub>2</sub> (nitrogen), Sergei Volkov today, on TsUP Go ahead, was to repressurize the ISS cabin atmosphere with N<sub>2</sub> from 42P’s SrPK tankage to make up total pressure. 
 
At ~11:10am EDT, Mike Fossum supported an educational PAO TV event, responding to questions from regional middle school students assembled at the Hispanic Engineering, Science, and Technology (HESTEC) Conference, University of Texas - Pan American, at Edinburg, TX.       [What experiments are you currently working on?  What is the mission or goal for your current spaceflight?  Since you aren’t using the Shuttle anymore, what will you be using?  With this being your longest mission in space, how have you adjusted to microgravity?  What does it feel like to float?  When you get back from space, does your body have to adjust to being on Earth?  What is the difference in responsibilities of a flight commander versus a flight engineer?  What food do you miss eating the most?  Do you lose or gain weight while in space?  What inspired you to be an astronaut?  What do you do for entertainment on the ISS?]
 
At ~12:45pm, Sergei Volkov was scheduled for his standard weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, the CDR turns on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Mike will turn MPC routing off again.       [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5). 
 
SAW Power Testing:     Yesterday, MCC-H initiated a two-day SAW (Solar Array Wing) maximum power output test, to improve the fidelity of maximum power output calculations.      [Channels 3B, 4B, 1A, and 2A were tested yesterday, with the performance test intentionally scheduled during the autumnal equinox, with a test data collection of +/- 5 minutes from orbital noon.  Robotics ground controllers powered the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System), MBS (Mobile Base System), SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) and MT (Mobile Transporter) equipment on the 4B power channel in support of the battery testing.  Upon completion of the test, the system was returned to its keep-alive power configuration. System performance was nominal.  Today, channels 4A, 1B, 3A, and 2B are being tested, with Robotics loads turned on again.]
 
Conjunction Alert:    Flight controllers are tracking a conjunction with Object 29394, Japanese H-2A Rocket Body, a repeating conjunction with TCA (Time of Closest Approach) on 9/29 (Thursday) at 4:55am EDT.  The other close approaches, currently outside the notification box, are 1-rev earlier and 1-rev later.   This particular conjunction has very favorable miss distance geometry and is not thought at this time to pose a high risk.   However, due to the relatively small miss distances and its repeating nature, the conjunction is classified as of Medium concern at this time.  The major decision points will occur tonight and tomorrow morning.  If required, a DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) would be conducted on 9/29 at about 2:37am EDT (est.)
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Valletta, Malta (the Maltese islands of Gozo and Malta in the central Mediterranean Sea lie about 100 miles south of the large island of Sicily.  The capital city of Valletta with a population of just over 6,000 is located on the north coast of the larger island of Malta), B.P. Structure, Impact Crater, Libya (B.P. is an exposed impact crater that is 2 km in diameter and is estimated to be less than 120 million years in age.  Although small, it is somewhat distinctive because of its circular shape.  A local visual cue is an S-bend ridge near the crater), Tropical Storm Philippe, Atlantic Ocean (DYNAMIC EVENT:  Tropical Storm Philippe, the 16th named tropical cyclone of the North Atlantic season, developed rapidly over the weekend in the far eastern tropical Atlantic just south of the Cape Verde Islands.  Development has slowed since then and at the time of today’s ISS pass was still expected to be a tropical storm with 55kt winds.  As ISS approached from the NW over the open sea, the crew was to look for Philippe just left of track and try for short-lens, context views of the overall cloud pattern), and Hurricane Hilary, Pacific Ocean (having peaked over the weekend as a Category 4 Hurricane with 125kt winds, Major Hurricane Hilary has slowly weakened to Category 3 this morning and this trend is expected to continue.  At the time of today’s ISS pass, it was forecast to be still a strong Category 2 storm with 100kt winds and possibly still had a visible eye.  As the crew tracked southeastward over the eastern Pacific with the peninsula of Baja California on the left, they were to look obliquely right of track for either short lens context views of the entire storm structure or detailed views of the eye if present).
 

