
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Repressurization: This morning, FE-5 initiated a repress of the JEMAL then performed a leak check of the airlock.  Later this week, the crew will remove the NRCSD from the airlock. 
Water Monitoring Suite – Microbial Monitoring System (WMS – MMS): FE-6 began operations with the MMS subset of the WMS experiment.  The crew reviewed an On-Board Training (OBT) video then configured the hardware to sample a low and high DNA concentration sample using the Razor Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Microbial Monitoring System.  The WMS is a set of hardware that monitors microbes, silica and organic material in the water supply on the ISS. The hardware ensures crew members can test and monitor the safety of their water supplies on future space missions, especially on long-duration missions to Mars, asteroids or other destinations where Earth-based testing would be difficult or impossible.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Sample Removal: FE-5 removed a sample from the ELF Experiment Volume and replaced it with a new sample.  Ground controllers will use the new sample to continue the checkout of the software and facility.  The next planned use of the ELF facility is the Group Combustion experiment, currently scheduled for next week. The Group Combustion investigation tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack in the Kibo module, droplets of decane, a component of gasoline or kerosene, are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made. 
Eli Lilly Hard To Wet Surfaces: FE-6 set up the Hard to Wet Surfaces Sample Module image, injected buffer solutions into the sample vials then mixed all six sample vials inside the Sample Module.  The crew aligned and focused the D2Xs Camera and took manual photos utilizing EarthKAM software on the SSC. Automated photography was then initiated using the D2Xs Camera’s intervalometer. The Hard to Wet Surfaces (Eli Lilly-Hard to Wet Surfaces) investigation studies how certain materials used in the pharmaceutical industry dissolve in water while in microgravity. Results from this investigation could help improve the design of tablets that dissolve in the body to deliver drugs, thereby improving drug design for medicines used in space and on Earth.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Closeout: The crew performed closeout following the Mouse Epigenetics experiment.  FE-5 removed, cleaned, and stowed the Mouse Habitat Unit, Glovebox, and Backup Power units.  CBEF is a JAXA subrack facility located in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack. The CBEF is used in various life science experiments, such as cultivating cells and plants in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). The CBEF consists of an incubator and control equipment for control and communications. The incubator unit consists of a microgravity compartment and a 1-G compartment. The 1-G compartment has a centrifuge that can control gravity from 0.1 to 2.0 G during gravity contrast experiments with the microgravity compartment. The CBEF incubator can control temperature, humidity, and carbon dioxide concentration for cultivation of cells and plants. 

