
Marrow:  Today a 51S crewmember collected breath and ambient air samples for the Marrow investigation which looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Configuration for Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew configured the CIR optics bench that will be used to support the ACME investigation. Due to the amount of hardware requiring installation, configuration activities took a couple of days this week to complete. The ACME investigation is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the CIR. ACME’s primary goal is to improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Sarcolab-3: Today a USOS subject ingressed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) chair, located in the Columbus module, while a Russian operator collected ultrasound images of the subject’s right leg during exercise activities. This completed the third and final day of the ankle configuration exercises, which were performed by three different USOS and Russian crewmembers. Later today, the MARES hardware was re-configured to support tomorrow’s knee configuration exercises. The data collected for Sarcolab-3 will be compared to pre and post-flight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Multi-Omics-Mouse Consolidation:  Following the successful completion and return of the Multi-Omics investigation last week, the crew completed item consolidation tasks and returned the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) back to its nominal configuration. 
EVA Preparation:  In preparation for the upcoming EVAs, the crew completed Enhanced Caution and Warning System (EWCS) training and EMU battery charging. 
S-Band String 2 Troubleshooting: Yesterday, the ground team swapped S-Band string 1 to string 2 to gain confidence in its performance. On August 6, 2017, String 2 S-Band/UHF Audio Interface (AUAI)-1P showed intermittent functionality after an AUAI Passive Built-In Test (PBIT) fault indication. Space to Ground (S/G) audio on channels 1 and 2 became unusable. Functionality was recovered by switching to S-band string 1. Since the event, multiple attempts to duplicate the signature have been unsuccessful. The plan is to remain on string 2 until the schedule USOS EVAs in early October.

