
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments/Cool Flames Investigation with Gasses (CIR/ACME/CFI-G part 2): The crew removed an empty butane fuel bottle and installed a new butane fuel bottle, allowing the continuation of the experiment series. Spherical Cool Diffusion Flames Burning Gaseous Fuels (Cool Flames Investigation with Gases) observes the chemical reactions of cool diffusion flames. Diffusion flames are created by supplying fuel to a burner and mixing in ambient air for combustion. Cool flames, which burn at relatively low temperatures of ~600 deg C, are nearly impossible to create in Earth’s gravity, but are easily created in microgravity; studying them may improve the understanding of combustion and fires on Earth.
Ice Cube 9 Remove: The crew removed Experiment Cube 9 from the ICE Cube facility. Cube 9, aka the Project Maleth (Space Omics Analysis of the Skin Microbiome of Diabetic Foot Ulcers, or SpaceOMIX) investigation, looks at human skin microbiome samples from selected Type 2 Diabetic patients with diabetic foot ulcers resistant to treatment. These samples are studied as part of the first-ever Maltese space investigation on the ISS making it Malta’s first ever mission to space. The microbiome is co-cultured on both ground-based (analog) and space-based conditions to determine their adaptation and changes to the environment. All samples are analyzed in a multi-omic manner using state-of-the-art molecular biology techniques, and all data is to be deposited as part of the NASA GeneLab database.
Rodent Research-Demonstration 1 (RR-D1): The crew performed Rodent Research Experiment 3C operations. RR-D1 validates equipment and procedures for surgical techniques related to the wound healing process. Normal skin function and wound healing are important for maintaining good health, but spaceflight may impair healing of wounds in astronauts. Results from this investigation are intended to support design of a subsequent study on the effects of spaceflight on wound healing.
Nanoracks Module 92: The crew removed Nanorack Module-92 from the Nanoracks Mainframe-Alpha facility and packed it for return. Module-92 is a 2U (10 cm x 10 cm x 20 cm) module, which aims to verify whether presence of collagen and nutraceuticals may improve bone cell physiology and response to low gravity exposure.
Ring Sheared Drop-2 (RSD): The crew removed and stowed the processed RSD-2 sample. The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues; amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS): The crew collected CO2 and relative humidity samples from the TAS effluent. Thermal Amine Scrubber tests a method to remove carbon dioxide (CO2) from air aboard the ISS, using actively heated and cooled amine beds. Controlling CO2 levels on the station reduces the likelihood of crew members experiencing symptoms of CO2 buildup, which include fatigue, headache, breathing difficulties, strained eyes, and itchy skin. The system includes elements that reduce loss of water vapor and recover CO2 for use in electrolysis to produce oxygen. 
Systems:
Solar Array Wing (SAW) Max Power Testing: The bi-annual SAW max power testing is currently under way. Today, teams completed cycling through the 1A, 2A, 1B and 2B power channels to characterize the power generation of each channel. Testing on the 3A, 4A, 3B, and 4B power channels is expected to be complete on Friday, October 1st, after which teams will review the data collected for in-depth analysis and recommendations.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) EVA Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) Charger-3 Removal: Due to recent issues with EBOT Charger-3, ground teams have decided to remove and return the failed hardware. The crew reconfigured the airlock, rotated the A/L1F1 rack, removed the closeout panels, and removed EBOT Charger-3. They then packed the failed charger and will later stow it on SpX-23 for return.
Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued to perform cargo transfer operations for Cargo Dragon SpaceX-23 (SpX-23) undock. The crew transferred and installed a Polar, a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (Glacier), and a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN) from the ISS into Cargo Dragon. SpX-23 undock is scheduled for September 30th to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed a Max CEVIS session today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.

