
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation (BCAT-CS): The crew replaced all four SB-800 flash batteries with new AA batteries; they then verified the camera focus and alignment with manual images.  Recent reports from the BCAT team indicate the pixel brightness in the downlinked images is higher for the ISS samples compared to ground samples.  This is possibly due to more spherical aggregates as they form in microgravity.  The brightness may need to be corrected in future images.  BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles. Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration.
Human Research Facility Portable Computer (HRF PC):  The crew attempted to perform the HRF PC software updates today, but encountered issues connecting to the network.  Some troubleshooting was performed to verify the cause of the connection issues, the hardware was then returned to the original configuration.  The HRF PCs are used to install and execute software that supports HRF experiments. They are also used to control equipment; to collect and store data, crew notes, and equipment notes; and to provide uplink and downlink capabilities.
JAXA Protein Crystallization Growth (JAXA LT PCG): The crew completed the transfer of two sets of JAXA LTPCG Samples from the HTV/ICE Box on HTV-7 to the Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST).  The objective of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Protein Crystallization Growth (JAXA LT PCG) investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity to determine protein structures in detail. The structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs in order to explore the mystery of our lives.
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Operations:  The crew installed the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) Adapter Plate and JEM AL Slide Table Passive Capture Mechanism in preparation for the upcoming JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer 10 (J-SSOD) installation on Monday.  The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once the J-SSOD is installed on the MPEP by crewmembers, it’s passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning and deployment by the JEMRMS.
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Cargo Transfer:  The crew completed 11 hours 30 minutes of HTV-7 Cargo transfer operations today. The crew completed enough cargo operations today and will be able to move forward with the rack transfers currently scheduled for Monday.  Ground specialists estimate it will take the crew a total of 15 hours to complete the first message.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: This evening, Robotics Ground Controllers will be powering up the MSS, maneuvering the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to extract the External Platform (EP) from the HTV-7 Unpressurized Logistics Carrier (ULC), and installing it on the Payload and ORU Accommodation (POA).

