
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Capture and Berthing: Yesterday evening, Robotics Ground Controllers performed a survey of the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) sealing surface as required prior to HTV berthing. Today, the ISS Crew (Feustel, Auñón-Chancellor, Gerst) monitored the HTV-7 approach from the Cupola Robotic Workstation (RWS) and, at approximately 11:34 GMT, with Feustel at the controls, they successfully captured HTV using the SSRMS. Next, the Robotics Ground Controllers used the SSRMS to maneuver HTV-7 into position to support the inspection of the HTV-7 Passive CBM and then to maneuver the HTV-7 to and install it on the Node2 Nadir Active CBM at approximately 13:42 GMT.  Node2 Nadir Active CBM was Ground commanded to capture and bolt the HTV-7 to the ISS.  The Robotic Ground Controllers then released the HTV-7 and maneuvered the SSRMS to grapple the HTV-7 External Platform (EP). Here, HTV Berthing Camera System (HBCS) was checked out on both cameras and SSRMS is now providing heater power to the EP.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Ingress:  Following a successful berthing by Houston Flight Controllers, the crew pressurized the Node 2 Nadir vestibule and preformed a leak check. Following the successful leak check, the crew outfitted the vestibule by removing the Center Disk Cover and HTV Hatch Thermal Blanket, mating power and data jumpers to HTV, installing IMV Supply jumpers, and installing closeout panels after removing the CBM Controller Panel Assembly. Ingress into HTV-7 was accomplished shortly thereafter; HTV Cargo Operations will begin tomorrow morning. 
Atomization: Today the crew performed closeout activities for the Atomization experiment.  As of GMT 269, all the planned runs for Increment 56 have been completed.  The Atomization experiment is performed in the JEM. It investigates the liquid spraying process in microgravity in order to confirm the new atomization concept developed from drop tower experiments on Earth. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The crew removed and replaced the CIR manifold bottle #4.  The new manifold bottle contains a mixture of ethylene fuel and nitrogen diluent to support the Electric-Field Effects on Laminar Diffusion Flames (E-Field flames) investigation, part 2. The Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity.
Fluidics: Today Run 3 was completed, followed by the closeout activities for the experiment.  The closeout included removal of the Fluidics tank, removal of the Fluidics hardware from seat-tracks, and stow. Fluidics is a fluid mechanics experiment with two main objectives: perform a Slosh study to investigate fluid behavior under microgravity during satellite maneuvers, and a Wave Turbulence study to investigate the impact of capillary effect on wave turbulence without being masked by the effect of gravity.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge: A water dump and fill was completed for EMUs 3003 and 3008 to satisfy maintenance requirements for on-orbit stowage.  In addition, a water sample was obtained from the In-Flight Refill Unit (IRU) to verify continued adherence to EMU water quality requirements.  During the activity, ground teams lost EMU data on EMU 3003 and the activity was completed on the alternate radio.  Since EMU 3003 is planned to be used for the upcoming EVAs in October, teams will meet tomorrow to discuss the anomaly and determine the forward plan.   
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Events: Today Ricky Arnold recorded a downlink message for future use at an event with the Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos at the Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) on Wednesday, October 3.  Serena Auñón-Chancellor, a University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) alumnus, participated in a live event with the McGovern Medical School. One of six schools that make up UTHealth, students, faculty and staff of the University attended the event and disused the importance of medicine in space and how it relates to medicine on Earth.

