
69 Soyuz Undock and Landing: 69 Soyuz undocked from the NM docking port of the ISS on Wednesday September 27th at 2:55 AM CDT. Later, at 6:17 AM CDT, 69 Soyuz touched down, safely returning NASA astronaut Frank Rubio and Roscosmos cosmonauts Sergey Prokopyev and Dmitry Petelin from the 371-day docked mission. This concludes Expedition 69.
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew continued to remove and replace the science module and heat exchanger components of the CAL experiment system. Activities today included fiber-optic cable inspection and cleaning. This work is expected to continue all week and the goal is to replace the aging science module 3 with the new science module 3B. CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The crew removed a faulty Input/Output Processor (IOP) from the CIR and prepared it for return it to the ground. CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity. CIR is currently non-operational due to the IOP issues, and a replacement has been manifested on an upcoming flight. CIR currently has the Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE) insert installed, which enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies. This provides common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Science activities including Electroretinography and Optical Coherence Tomography were performed. These activities are part of the Investigating Structure and Function of the Eye (ISAFE) investigation, which is part of the CIPHER suite of experiments. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Systems:
Environmental Control and Life Support (ECLS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit: The crew performed an audit of the PEPS. This audit was done to ensure that the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit (EHTK), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Mask are all free of damage and functioning properly. The audit also included a Quick Don Mask (QDM) Harness Maintenance. This is performed once a year.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
