ISS On-Orbit Status 09/24/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – Crew off duty.
 
FE-4 Sergei Volkov performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
CDR Fossum serviced the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) experiment, checking camera operations during the day and changing the camera battery in the morning and before sleeptime (change required after 8 hrs).       [The new experiment run is with a Harvard University phase separation sample using a different setup than for the recent crystal samples 9 &amp; 10, mainly requiring an SSC laptop with EarthKAM timing software, power cables and camera USB cable.  For illumination, the Mini-MagLite and Flash batteries do not need to be changed yet, but the camera will need a freshly charged battery.  After Mike started the run by mixing the sample (#4) for phase separation and taking test photos, the EarthKAM software on the SSC-13 laptop began taking pictures of Sample 4 for 13 days at different intervals throughout the run.  This requires camera battery changes twice a day and image check with a battery change once per day.  BCAT-5 is operating in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) because some time ago the crew deemed the US Lab too crowded for running it.]
 
In the SM, Volkov supported the ongoing tests of the TEKh-39 LCS (Laser Communications System, Russian: SLS) by copying the test data collected overnight from the RSE-SLS A31p laptop to the RSS2 laptop for data downlink.
 
Fossum, Volkov &amp; Furukawa joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).        ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, FE-4 completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).  Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.
 
Afterwards, Volkov inspected the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse and verified proper watering of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules.       [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
Sergei also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.  This included the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for calldown.      [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].
 
In Node-2, FE-5 Furukawa used the vacuum cleaner on the vents of the OpsLAN Servers LS1 &amp; ISS-SERVER1 in bay O3, to ensure optimal performance.
 
The CDR turned on MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) routing and started data flow, downlinking CFE results from 9/15 and the video of the Robonaut EPO (Educational Payload Operation) from 9/22, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).   
 
After the overnight ground-commanded payload operations on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), Mike Fossum installed the three PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the rack in the Lab at S3 to protect its ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) from external loading (dynamic disturbances) over the weekend.
 
Mike also reconfigured the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) from feeding the internal EDV-U container to supplying the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) directly for processing.        [After yesterday’s R&amp;R (remove &amp; replace) of the failed FCPA (Fluids Control &amp; Pump Assembly), the ground was not able to reactivate the UPA, and it remains in shutdown over the weekend.  The current thinking is that the problem is due to an override issue rather than a connection or other hardware issue.  Usually when the UPA is deactivated, the WHC is configured to use an internal EDV.  However, to conserve EDVs, Mike today temporarily integrated the WHC with the UPA.]
 
Servicing the MSL (Materials Science Laboratory), Fossum performed Sample Exchange-2 #2 in the SQF (Solidification &amp; Quenching Furnace), removing a used SCA (Sample Cartridge Assembly) and replacing it with the next test sample (SETA 23).   Due to spatial constraints, the nearby CEVIS exercise device, with seat moved back, could not be used during the MSSR (Material Science Research Rack 1) activity, which was video-monitored from the ground via MPC.      [The ESA/NASA MSRR-1 provides a powerful multi-user MSL with diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in micro-G to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.  MSRR experiments are coordinated by international teams that share different parts of the samples.]
 
Satoshi prepared JAXA EPO (Educational Program Operation) Report Nr. 10, i.e., writing another short report showing ordinary life in space which, it is expected, will attract children and the general public's attention for future human space exploration.       [JAXA EPO Report 10 is intended for THE MAINICHI newspapers, with the topic “On the Crew Medical Officer".]
 
At ~8:35am EDT, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~10:05am, Sergei had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
At ~11:35am, Sergei, Satoshi &amp; Mike joined for a Russian PAO TV downlink, transmitting TV messages of greetings to two events,- (1) the graduates of the Ministry of Defense Institutions of Higher Learning on 10/1 at the Krasnoznamensk Officers’ Club Auditorium, to honor the graduates who have come to the G. S. Titov Main Test Center to continue their military service, and (2) the participants of the XXII Assembly of the International Black Sea Club, to be held 10/2 in Azov, addressing issues associated with the implementation of space activity results by the Black Sea nations.  The members of the International Black Sea Club are municipal organizations from Bulgaria, Greece, Russia, Romania, and Ukraine.
 
Tasks listed for Sergei Volkov on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Continuing the preparation &amp; downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, </li></ul> 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).
 

