
Payloads:
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Mission 85: A week-long science objective was successfully performed. As of this report, around 12,000 students from 24 countries participated, and more than 2,800 images have been downlinked. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
ISS Ham: A Ham pass was supported with Escuela Preparatoria La Salle, Torreon Coah, Mexico. La Salle High School is located in the city of Torreon, state of Coahuila in the North of Mexico and is an affiliate of La Salle University. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Plant Hab-03B: The final experiment harvest was performed, and samples were prepared for return to the ground.  The Plant Habitat-03 series of plant experiments spanned more than six months, and included returning space-grown Arabidopsis seeds to the ground to be replanted and grown again on the ISS. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM)/FLARE: The crew began the installation of the SCEM experiment facility hardware into the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack 1 (MSPR1) work volume. SCEM will be used to support the FLARE experiment. Fundamental Research on International Standard of Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions (FLARE), a JAXA investigation, explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena, and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Systems:
Crew Departure Preparation: The crew continued preparations for the 69 Soyuz undock scheduled for Wednesday, September 27th. This included preparing personal items for return and other pre-departure tasks such as cleaning, stowage, and inventory management. The crew also performed a Soyuz nominal decent training activity and the ground team performed a Soyuz thruster fire test. 
US ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for upcoming US EVAs in October, the crew began maintenance on the Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs). The crew removed and replaced the failed EMU Helmet Lights and High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) on one of the EMUs. The crew also performed a checkout of the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) and a Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I) Degas. The October EVAs will focus on microorganism studies, removal of the S-Band Radio Frequency Group (RFG), and removal and replacement of the Port Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) Trundle Bearing Assembly (TBA).
Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) Detrusor Inspection & Clean: The crew performed a cleaning and inspection of the BPA detrusor. The BPA detrusor was deemed to be dysfunctional due to possible corrosion. Following the cleaning and reinstallation of the detrusor, the ground team was successfully able to activate the BPA and did not observe any further issues with the detrusor.
