
Group Combustion Module (GCM) Installation: FE-5 continued with the third day of installation and preparation for the GCM experiment and was to perform two pressure decay leak checks. After the first check, a leak was detected in the Air/O2 line, thus aborting the second check until specialist can determine the cause and develop a solution. The Elucidation of Flame Spread and Group Combustion Excitation Mechanism of Randomly-distributed Droplet Clouds (Group Combustion) investigation by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the Kibo module, droplets of decane, a component of gasoline or kerosene, are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made. 
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM): FE-6 ingressed BEAM and temporarily installed the Internal Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Remote Sensing Unit (RSU) in Node 3 and the Triaxial Accelerometer (TAA) in BEAM. Following the instrument installation, FE-6 performed a modal test by imparting loads onto BEAM and measuring the acceleration throughout the module. Expandable habitats, occasionally described as inflatable habitats, greatly decrease the amount of transport volume for future space missions. These “expandables” weigh less and take up less room on a rocket while allowing additional space for living and working. They also provide protection from solar and cosmic radiation, space debris, and other contaminants. Crews traveling to the moon, Mars, asteroids, or other destinations could potentially use them as habitable structures
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirement for Long-Term Space Flight: FE-5 began the first day of the 11 day ENERGY experiment. Intended to measure an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements, ENERGY will require FE-5 to consume standardized meals today and tomorrow, in addition to diet logging over the entire 11 day duration. Today FE-5 also setup the Armband Activity Monitor which will be worn through the duration of the experiment, took water samples, and setup the oxygen uptake measurements (XTP). Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Astronauts often lose body mass with extended stays in space for reasons that remain unclear, although increased exercise as a microgravity countermeasure may be a factor. Knowing details of astronaut metabolism and activity, combined with other conditions, will help ensure that crews are properly nourished on long missions. 

