
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites – Universal Docking Port (SPHERES-UDP):  Kelly reviewed the SPHERES-UDP procedure and test plan and then participated in a conference with the Payload Developer to discuss science operations. He then performed a SPHERES-UDP test run and downloaded data to a Station Support Computer (SSC).  The addition of docking ports to SPHERES provides a testbed for the investigation of solutions to the challenges of combining autonomous spacecraft.  Mated spacecraft can be used to assemble complex systems in orbit or combine sensors and actuators for satellite servicing and repurposing missions. SPHERES-UDP enables testing of complex tasks through optimal and adaptive control, autonomous decision-making processes, and real-time image processing.
 
Node 1 Nadir Berthing Port Preparation:   As part of USOS Reconfiguration, Lindgren and Yui routed two power cables from the forward end cone to bay 3 in the Lab Overhead Starboard Standoff.  These cables connected to the set of cables installed yesterday. Today’s cable routing required every other overhead rack (LAB1O1, LAB1O3, and LAB1O5) to be rotated in the Lab. One crew member retrieved the cable ends behind the un-rotated racks as the other crew member fed the cables through.  Additional cabling routing activities within Node 1 and Node 2 are scheduled for next week. These cables will eventually provide power from Node 2 to the Node 1 Nadir Berthing Port and the Node 1 Galley Rack.
 
Ultrasonic Background Noise Test (UBNT) Battery Change:  While the 3 US Lab racks were rotated for the cable routing, Yui and Lindgren replaced the battery packs in the UBNT units which are located behind the racks.  These battery change outs will allow the UBNT units to provide acoustic measurements for the area where they are located.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday afternoon, Robotics Ground Controllers successfully translated the Mobile Transporter from Worksite 5 to Worksite 2. This evening, they will maneuver the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to retrieve the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) then perform an Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) imagery survey.  Following the survey, they will position the MSS to support upcoming Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Operations starting Friday, October 2nd.
 

