
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirement for Long-Term Space Flight): Today, FE-5 continued with Day 2 of the 11 day ENERGY experiment. The second day activities include the consumption of a standardized breakfast, continued diet logging, continued wear of the Armband Activity Monitor, double labeled water intake, oxygen uptake measurements, and urine collection. FE-6, as the control subject, also provided a urine sample for the investigation. The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Astronauts often lose body mass with extended stays in space for reasons that remain unclear, although increased exercise as a microgravity countermeasure may be a factor. Knowing details of astronaut metabolism and activity, combined with other conditions, will help ensure that crews are properly nourished on long missions.
Hard to Wet Surfaces: In continuation of the Hard to Wet Surfaces investigation, today FE-6 inspected the Sample Module for any undissolved remains of the white tablets. The Hard to Wet Surfaces investigation studies how certain materials used in the pharmaceutical industry dissolve in water while in microgravity. Results from this investigation could help improve the design of tablets that dissolve in the body to deliver drugs, thereby improving drug design for medicines used in space and on Earth.
NeuroMapping Operations: FE-6 setup the NeuroMapping hardware and performed the experiment which includes testing in both a “strapped in” and “free floating” body configuration. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the International Space Station.
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Data Gather:  Today, FE-6 installed the TAK onto each of the PGTs and recorded their torque output for ground analysis.  This activity is part of a 6-month requirement for all on-orbit PGTs.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE) Survey:  SSRMS was walked off from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 3 to MBS PDGF 1 and inspection of LEE A was completed using the External High Definition Cameras (EHDCs).  Later this afternoon, SSRMS will be walked off to Node 2 for Cygnus capture preparations. 

