
Rodent Research:  The Crew set up and configured the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and installed various tools, supplies, and equipment in preparation for future planned Rodent Research activities.
Micro-8:  Gerst terminated Micro-8 Group Activation Packs (GAPs) C,D,E,F,G.  GAP’s D,E,F,G will be returned to Commercial Generic Biologic Apparatus -5  (CGBA-5) to await packing for SpaceX-4 return.  GAP C will be inserted into the General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) frozen cold stowage.  Micro is a biology experiment which will expand our understanding of the fundamental basis of how space flight affects the biological and molecular functions of the cell and the molecular mechanisms by which cells and tissues respond to spaceflight conditions.
RapidScat:  On day two of external payload transfer operations, Robotics Ground Controllers removed the RapidScat Instrumentation Assembly from the SpaceX-4  Dragon trunk and installed it to the RapidScat Nadir Adapter on the Columbus Exposed Facility Unit (EFU). The transfer of the instrument only used 2 hours 20 minutes of its 4 hour thermal clock. No issues were encountered.  ISS-RapidScat is a space-based scatterometer that measures wind speed and direction over the ocean, and is useful for weather forecasting, hurricane monitoring, and observations of large-scale climate phenomena. The ISS RapidScat instrument enhances measurements from other international scatterometers by cross-checking their data, and demonstrates a unique way to replace an instrument aboard an aging satellite. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The crew performed several tasks today in preparation for EVA 27, which will relocate a Pump Module (PM) and install the Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA) on October 7th and EVA 28 which will change out a Sequential Shunt Unit on October 15th.  Gerst, Wiseman and Wilmore set up the Equipment Lock, Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) and ancillary hardware to support EVA preparations.  Wiseman performed conductivity tests on the EMU water samples collected during yesterday’s EMU loop scrubbing activities. Wiseman and Gerst also obtained measurements to support EMU fit checks planned for tomorrow and completed a review of the EVA worksite and translation paths. Wilmore reviewed the robotics support procedures for EVA 27 and initialized another charging cycle for the Long Life Batteries (LLBs).
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS):  This morning, CEVIS experienced an issue that prevented the Crew from being able to pedal forward.  After some troubleshooting, Ground teams determined that a change out of CEVIS hardware components would be necessary. Later in the day, the crew replaced the CEVIS Ergometer and Inertial Vibration Isolation System (IVIS) Boxes. Once the change out activity was complete, Gerst successfully checked out CEVIS by exercising for approximately 30 minutes. 
Due to the unscheduled work performed on CEVIS, several activities were deferred from today’s plan. These activities include: MTRA preparation, EVA Caution & Warning System On-Board Training (OBT), SpaceTex, and Robotic software review for Gerst and Wiseman.

