
Payloads:
B Complex: Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2) Exams were performed. Some astronauts experience swelling near where the optic nerve attaches at the back of the eye, part of a condition called Spaceflight-Associated Neuro-ocular Syndrome (SANS). Evidence exists that genetics and B vitamin status predispose some astronauts to develop this condition. A Nutraceutical SANS Countermeasure (B Complex) study tests whether a daily B vitamin supplement can prevent or mitigate SANS and assesses how an individual’s genetics may influence the response.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Sample Collections were performed but operations were aborted due to a hardware failure of the HRF-1 centrifuge which prevented continuation of the CIPHER sequence tasks. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew completed Module 3 Remove and Replace (R&R) closing steps by fiber cleaning with alcohol wipes. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): Video Monitoring software was activated and the gas exchanger was switched to Argon. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and Roscosmos, performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Sleep in Orbit: The crew completed Sleep in Orbit pre-measurement activities. This investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG (electroencephalography) based sleep monitoring.
Systems:
Camera Light Assembly (CLA) Installation Preparation: The crew spent time removing the damaged Camera Light Pan & Tilt Assembly from the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) and installing the CLA in its place to prepare for the upcoming remote CLA R&R operations. The CLA R&R is a ground controlled activity using the Mobile Servicing Station (MSS) to replace the degraded CLA on the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). The R&R is scheduled to commence tomorrow.
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) MultiFiltration (MF) Bed R&R: The crew performed various operations to R&R the MF Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) #2 from the WPA. This included shifting the Stall Panels and removing the Node 3 Midbay Toilet system to access the MF Bed. This system is essential for nominal crew operation on the ISS and it has an expected lifespan that the team is prepared to accommodate on short notice.
Emergency Health Maintenance System (HMS) Contingency Drill Training: The crew participated in On-Board Training (OBT) to review procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency on-board the ISS. They also practiced CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with execution if a medical emergency occurs.
