
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The sample Collection setup was completed. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The video monitor was activated and the PK-4 banner was installed on the European Physiology Module (EPM) in preparation for Science Campaign #17. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Roscosmos, performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas:  low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles:  so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Sleep in Orbit: The crew completed pre-measurement activities for the Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep In Orbit) investigation. This investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG based sleep monitoring.
Systems:
Camera Light Pan & Tilt Assembly (CLPA) Remove and Replace (R&R): The team completed the CLPA R&R to replace the degraded CLPA on the Boom B Wedge Mating Interface (WMI). These operations used ground commands to the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to relocate the two CLPAs. R&R operations will continue throughout the week with a Camera Light Assembly (CLA) R&R using external robotics following crew installation of the CLA into the JEM AirLock (JEMAL). 
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs in October. They completed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) swap, prepared the equipment lock and EMUs for suit donning, Extravehicular (EV) and Intravehicular (IV) EMU On-orbit Fitcheck Verifications (OFVs), and a US EVA Tether Inspection. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and Radio Frequency Group (RPF) retrieval EVAs scheduled for later this month.
Crew Dragon Monthly Checkout: The ground team performed a checkout of the Crew-7 Dragon vehicle as part of a monthly objective to ensure good health and status of the vehicle. This checkout involved verification of nominal communication and telemetry with the vehicle and proper system health.
Video Distribution Subsystem (VDS) External High Definition Camera (EHDC) Survey: The ground team configured the VDS for two EHDC camera views and performed an external survey of 84P. The survey consisted of taking images of the Progress vehicle at the MRM2 docking port at various lighting conditions during two day passes of the ISS. The team is looking for any physical indication that might affect 84P undock in November.
