
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts): Following yesterday’s Dilution Measurements, today, the ISS CDR performed Day 2 of his Final Fluid Shifts collection.  With assistance from FE-6, the crew performed various collections and measurements including Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Tonometry, and Ultrasounds.  Today’s sessions concluded the CDR’s Fluid Shift activities, as the crew will not be performing Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) measurements or Chibis/Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) measurements.  The CCFP measurement device was returned on SpaceX-9 for failure analysis, and due to the shortened 47S increment duration, it was determined that the LBNP would not be required.  Both instances of science loss were reviewed and accepted by the payload teams.  Fluid Shifts investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Marrow Blood Collection: FE-5, with the assistance of FE-6, performed the fourth and final blood collections in support of the Return minus 30 day (R-30d) requirement.  The samples were spun using the on-board refrigerated centrifuge then stored in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight.  The MARROW study (Bone Marrow Adipose Reaction: Red Or White?) (Marrow) investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on the bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
Multiomics Collections: FE-5 performed sampling in support of the JAXA MultiOmics experiment.  Various samples are collected and stowed in MELFI four times throughout the crew’s on-orbit duration in addition to a questionnaire and ingestion of fructooligosaccharide (FOS).  The objective of MultiOmics is to understand the gut ecosystem of astronauts in the space environment, especially focusing on the immune dysfunction, and to evaluate the impact of fructooligosaccharide (FOS). 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Troubleshooting: FE-5 performed an ELF Sample Holder exchange to troubleshoot the friction problems seen with previous Sample Holders.  The Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo. 
Microgravity Science Laboratory (MSL) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) Exchange: FE-5 performed a sample exchange in the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) MSL facility.  The crew installed the Batch-2b of the MSL SCA, which serves two projects investigating how different phases organize in a structure when metallic alloys are solidified. The crew observed a scratch on the liquid-metal ring, which allows for controlled cooling of the sample.  Ground controllers had the crew continue with the operations, and they will initiate the experiment run the week of 17 October.  The project Metastable Solidification of Composites (METCOMP) studies the phase formed by the reaction of the remaining liquid phase with an already formed solid, to form a second solid phase on cooling. For this purpose, Bronze (Copper-Tin Alloys) of different compositions will be processed. The other project, Solidification along a Eutectic path in Ternary Alloys (SETA), looks at how two phases that form together organize into lamellar, or fibre, structures when cooling Aluminum (Copper-Silver Alloys). Both projects will provide benchmark samples that will enable to test numerical models that aim to predict these structures.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Slosh Preparations: FE-6 continued charging batteries and review On-Board Training (OBT) materials in advance of tomorrow’s experiment run.  The crew conducted a conference with the SPHERES-Slosh team. The SPHERES-Slosh investigation examines the way liquids move inside containers in a microgravity environment. The phenomena and mechanics associated with such liquid movement are still not well understood and are very different than our common experiences with a cup of coffee on Earth. Rockets deliver satellites to space using liquid fuels as a power source, and this investigation plans to improve our understanding of how propellants within rockets behave in order to increase the safety and efficiency of future vehicle designs. 

