
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope:  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins continued his series of three day activities in support of the Ocular Health payload, completing his flight day 10 session. FE-5 Parmitano, supporting as the Crew Medical Officer, completed a Fundoscope eye examination of Hopkins after administering drops for pupil dilation.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Microscope Activation:  Today, FE-6 Nyberg activated the MSPR Microscope for troubleshooting with ground commanding.
NanoRacks Module-9 Module Investigation:  Nyberg used Microscope-2 to perform analysis of the NanoRacks Module-9, mixture tubes activated on September 30th.  This investigation is part of a commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE), called the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP). Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of 17 different science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the ISS.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment Runs:  Nyberg conducted the 39th – 41st InSPACE-3 runs out of a total of 42 runs planned for this experiment series.  InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state by the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Emergency Hardware Familiarization On-board Training (OBT):  CDR Yurchikhin, FE-1 Kotov, FE-2 Ryazanskiy, and Hopkins all participated in an Emergency Hardware Familiarization OBT.  During the session, the crew reviewed expected interactions, locations of emergency support equipment, and positions of valves used during emergencies.
Physical Fitness Evaluation (PFE):  Parmitano and Nyberg performed their periodic PFE.  The PFE is performed to monitor crewmember’s overall fitness levels to ensure that cardiovascular and musculoskeletal health and performance is satisfactory. The PFE consists of performing an exercise test on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).
Sabatier Update:  Sabatier failed yesterday. After three attempts, Sabatier was successfully restarted. The original failure was due to delta pressure fault detected at the inlet to the reactor assembly. The second attempt was unsuccessful when liquid water was detected on both liquid sensors on the Sabatier vent line. After allowing the liquid sensors to dry out, the ground performed a third attempt which was successful.  Sabatier was operational overnight before faulting out and shutting down once again.  This last shutdown was due to another delta pressure fault. The fault signatures are indicative of moisture in the CO2 accumulator which is partially blocking flow.  Sabatier team is concerned with moisture being received from Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) or condensation that has accumulated in the CO2 accumulator tanks.  Sabatier will remain shut down until this is anomaly is better understood.

