
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg conducted the last of the planned 42 InSPACE-3 runs for this experiment series.  She then conducted the first of new additional series of 12 runs, which will use the same test parameter settings as previous runs but with an increase in the duration from 2 hours to between 4.5 and 6 hours.  This will allow investigation of a continued chain-like aggregation phenomena observed towards the end of some of the previous shorter duration runs.  InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state with the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-7:  FE-6 Nyberg set up and initiated a run for the ICF-7 study. CFE-ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners.  Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity.  The units used in the ICF-7 runs differ from ICF-6 in the capillary geometry of their respective test chambers.  Equations governing the process are known but have not been solved analytically because of a lack of experimental data identifying the appropriate boundary conditions for the flow problem. Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can then be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
ISS 15th Anniversary Filming:  Nyberg and Commander (CDR) Yurchikhin recorded video messages to commemorate the 15th anniversary of ISS first element launch, November 20.  The crew recorded a variety of day in the life and work scenes.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Water Collection and Analysis:  FE-5 Parmitano sampled water from the PWD Ambient for micro in-flight processing, TOCA analysis, Colormetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit (CWQMK) analysis, and Post-Flight archive sampling.  PWD water processing using Microbial Capture Devices (MCD) and coliform detection bag was performed following the water collection.
JEM Robotic Manipulator System (RMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA): Overnight, JAXA Ground Teams successfully completed SFA Joint Angle Offset command checkout and maneuver demonstrations. The activity took longer than expected due to a violation in arm speed, which was detected during SFA initialization. Once ground teams understood the exceedance, recovery steps were performed and the remainders of planned tasks were completed without issue.  Additional Ground Controlled SFA Operations are scheduled to occur through GMT 287.

