
USOS Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) #44: Today Randy Bresnik (as EV1) and Mark Vande Hei (as EV2) exited the airlock and successfully performed US EVA #44 with a Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of 6:55. The primary goal of today’s EVA was to remove the degraded Latching End Effector (LEE) A from the Space Station Robotic Manipulator System (SSRMS), replace it with the LEE that is currently located on the Payload/ORU Accommodation (POA), and install the degraded LEE onto the POA.  LEE-A had exhibited significantly increased resistance to latch deployment during recent robotics activities prompting today’s replacement. Today’s EVA brought the SSRMS back to full capability. 
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): This morning, a 51S crewmember conducted a Flight Day 70 FMS session, which is executed on a touchscreen tablet, where the subject performs a series of interactive tasks. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods. 
MagVector:  The crew completed the 14th experiment run of the MagVector investigation that began last week. The European Space Agency (ESA) MagVector investigation studies how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future International Space Station experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general, the backbone of our technology. 
Biological Experiment Laboratory in Columbus (BioLab) Temperature Control Unit Cleaning and Silica Bag Exchange: The crew cleaned the Biolab TCUs and exchanged the silica gel bags for TCUs 1 and 2. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.

