
Payloads:
Circadian Light: A day assessment of Circadian Light was performed using the EveryWear app on an iPad. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
ECHO: Trouble shooting efforts were performed to determine the root cause of intermittent anomaly observed with Echo video signal routing through HD-VCA I/F of VCA1-PORT. The purpose of the ECHO investigation is to evaluate a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes that are controlled by flight controllers on the ground. Additionally, this investigation serves to perform the commissioning of the Echo instrument, which is planned to be used for the Vascular ECHO experiment in the future.
ESA-Education Payload Operations (EPO): Video was recorded in support of the EPO Mogensen – Astronaut logbook & Humans in Space exhibition Day 2: How I live sustainably. ESA’s International Space Station (ISS) Education Programme makes use of human spaceflight and the ISS as a means to capture the attention and the interest of students, to attract them to study, in particular, scientific, and technical disciplines, and to appreciate and understand the benefits, challenges, importance of space for Europe, and as a member of a global economy.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The T61p Laptop was installed for Plasma Kristall-4 video monitoring and the crew performed a technical checkout of the PK-4 video monitor in parallel of ground activities. A Gas supply exchange from Cleaning to Neon gas was also performed. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and Roscosmos, performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Transparent Alloys: Transparent Alloys hardware was installed into the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and a sample cartridge was loaded. Transparent Alloys consists of numerous experiments to study various growth and solidification processes in alloys.
Vascular Aging: Ultrasound measurements using ECHO hardware were performed in support of the Vascular Aging Study. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
Camera Light and Pan & Tilt Assembly (CLPA) Remove & Replace Preparation: The crew spent time installing the CLPA into the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) in preparation for the remote CLPA R&R operations upcoming in the next couple of days. The CLPA R&R is a ground controlled activity using the Mobile Servicing Station (MSS) to repair the broken CLPA on the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). The R&R is scheduled to commence tomorrow and Wednesday.
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs in October. They completed a Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Installation, an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub, an EVA Intravehicular Review, an EMU Water Recharge, and an EMU Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LCVG) Water Fill. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and Radio Frequency Group (RFG) retrieval EVAs scheduled for early October.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until later this year before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
