
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #6 Operations:  Today Kelly opened the outer hatch and extended the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock slide table external to ISS.  The ground operations team used the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA) to grapple the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP), mounted on the slide table, and maneuvered it into position for the initial cubesat deploys.  Today, two Danish cubesats were deployed at 9:06am CDT and the first 4 Dove cubesats of the “Flock 2” fleet of satellites will be launched later today.  Yui used a camera to take several photos of the CubeSat deployment from the Cupola window.   The Danish satellite GOMX-3 has an advanced antenna-pointing system and a variety of communications capabilities. It contains radios to test reception and data downlink for GPS satellites, the military and for weather monitoring, air traffic control and other uses.  The second Danish satellite AAUSAT-5 uses a student-designed and constructed Automatic Identification System (AIS) receiver to track ship signals in support of a space-based AIS system. The Dove nanosatellites enable imagery of the entire planet to be taken on a frequent basis, with humanitarian and environmental applications ranging from monitoring deforestation and the ice caps to disaster relief and improving agriculture yields in developing nations.  A total of 16 cubesats will be deployed this week:  14 Planet Lab Doves and the 2 Danish satellites.
 
Robonaut 2 Troubleshooting:  Kelly performed troubleshooting the Robonaut’s Compact Peripheral Component Interface today.  Both power supplies are giving the same error indications.  Ground teams are in the process of developing additional troubleshooting steps.  Robonaut 2 is a two-armed humanoid robot torso designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, work in high risk environments, and respond safely to unexpected obstacles. Robonaut is currently mounted inside the ISS.  In the future, it will perform tasks both inside and outside the ISS.
 
Twins Study:  Kelly collected Flight Day 191 blood samples today in support of the Twins Study.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
Node 1 Sample Delivery System (SDS) Hose and Power Cabling Installation:  As part of USOS Reconfiguration, Lindgren removed several Node 1 Closeout Panels.  The panels were removed early before working behind them to allow adequate time for passive ventilation.  Later in the afternoon, Lindgren and Yui installed two SDS hoses and partially completed installation of power and data cables which will eventually support the Node 1 Nadir Berthing Port, Galley Rack and the International Docking Adapters on Node 2.   The cable routing activity ran long and planner are working to schedule the remainder of the activity tomorrow.
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance:  As part of regularly scheduled Maintenance, Yui replaced the WHC Piping between the Pump Separator and the Dose Pump.
 
Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM):  On Saturday, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm2 into position to continue the RRM payload Task Board 3 (TB3) Science Operations.  They first acquired the Vent Plug Adapter (VPA) and removed it from its receptacle.  After backing it away from the receptacle, they then performed the VPA free space checkout consisting of radial expansion and retraction of the VPA o-rings.  Next they inserted the VPA inside a 2” tube vent, where the o-rings were expanded to seal the inside of the vent tube.  After multiple attempts of pulling with incrementally higher forces and pushing back in, the VPA was finally released by the Multi Function Tool (MFT) with minimum force after the MFT was cycled through its modes.
 
Sunday, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered SPDM Arm2 to position it over MFT Valve Interface (MVI) Valve 1 (V1).  However, the MVI pressure test activity was deferred due to video camera issues.  They then moved on to the Electrical Plug Adaptor (EPA) task by repositioned SPDM Arm2 for the start of the EPA task and used the MFT to unstow the EPA from its receptacle.  After backing it away from the receptacle, they performed the EPA free space checkout.  Finally, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered SPDM Arm 2 to a park position.   The RRM operations will resume this afternoon.
 
 

