ISS On-Orbit Status 10/04/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       
 
FE-4 Sergei Volkov performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Volkov also conducted the routine verification of yesterday’s refreshes of the IUS AntiVirus program on all Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2.       [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the recent SSCV4 software update.  Before the installation on 8/8 of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
Later, FE-4 completed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  Sergei will terminate the process at ~4:35pm EDT.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.  (Done last: 9/13 &amp; 9/14).      [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]
 
At or after ~2:36am EDT, CDR Fossum concluded his 2<sup>nd</sup> NUTRITION w/Repository 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Additionally, Mike underwent the associated generic blood draw, with Satoshi Furukawa assisting with the phlebotomy as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Mike then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI.     [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
FE-5 Furukawa began his periodic HRF (Human Research Facility) generic 24-hr urine collection period, with void-by-void samples deposited in MELFI.  His blood sample draw is scheduled tomorrow.
 
Later, Furukawa conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.       [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
The CDR serviced the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) experiment, checking camera operations during the day and changing the camera battery in the morning and before sleeptime (change required after 8 hrs).        [The new experiment session is with a Harvard University phase separation sample using a different setup than for the recent crystal samples 9 &amp; 10, mainly requiring an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop with EarthKAM timing software, power cables and camera USB cable.  For illumination, the Mini-MagLite and Flash batteries do not need to be changed yet, but the camera will need a freshly charged battery.  After Mike started the run on 9/21 by mixing the sample (#4) for phase separation and taking test photos, the EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) software on the SSC-13 laptop began taking pictures of Sample 4 for 13 days at different intervals throughout the run.  This requires camera battery changes twice a day and image check with a battery change once per day.  BCAT-5 is operating in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) because some time ago the crew deemed the US Lab too crowded for running it.]
 
Sergei completed the daily inspection of the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, verifying proper watering of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules.        [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
Servicing the MSL (Materials Science Laboratory) in the MSRR (Material Science Research Rack), Fossum performed Sample Exchange-2 #3 in the SQF (Solidification &amp; Quenching Furnace), removing a used SCA (Sample Cartridge Assembly) and replacing it with the next test sample (SETA 2#4).   Due to spatial constraints, the nearby CEVIS exercise device, with seat moved back, could not be used during the MSSR activity, which was video-monitored from the ground via MPC.  Afterwards, CEVIS was reconfigured.      [On 9/29, the MSRR facility was processing an MSL sample when a PLMDM (Payload Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) computer failure occurred.  Because of this failure, the MSL facility was shut down with no nominal cooling.  For the MSL Sample exchange scheduled today, the CDR was requested to take additional photos and video of the processed sample and to comment on the condition of the sample.  The ESA/NASA MSRR-1 provides a powerful multi-user MSL with diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in micro-G to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.  MSRR experiments are coordinated by international teams that share different parts of the samples.]
 
After setting up the JAXA SSHDTV (Super Sensitive High-Definition Television) in the Node-3 Cupola, Satoshi Furukawa started another SSHDTV camera session, today with the IR (Infrared) cut filter 3 on the single-focus 8 mm lens and the automatic recorder clock &amp; time code set for 5 min of recording of Aurora recording.
 
With the STTS communication systems configured temporarily for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Volkov set up and conducted a familiarization &amp; test session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), supported by ground specialist tagup.  STTS was then reconfigured to nominal.  An operational KPT-10 run is scheduled tomorrow, with downlinks over two RGS (Russian Ground Sites).          [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
Later, Sergei terminated his latest session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2-2 protocol, started yesterday.      [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Sergei doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
Both Furukawa &amp; Fossum were subjects for their 3<sup>rd</sup> onboard session with the 24S-delivered HMS (Health Maintenance System) Tonometry payload, originally set up and tested by Paolo Nespoli &amp; Cady Coleman on 4/28.   Today, Satoshi &amp; Mike took turns as CMO to measure each other’s intraocular pressure, supervised via live S-band video by medical ground personnel.       [Data take was preceded by a skill refresher on an eye simulator, observed from the ground.  Seven to 10 measurements are required for the Tonometer to calculate an eye pressure reading and the statistical confidence level.  For the actual Tonometry, anesthetic eye drops (Proparacaine) are used that are effective in approx. 30 seconds and last for 20 minutes or longer.  Tonometer measurements in micro-G will be used to assess the health of the crew’s eyes.] 
 
Mike &amp; Satoshi again had several hours on their work schedules for collecting USOS (US Segment) trash and excessed gear for Sergei to load on Progress 42P (docked at DC1), guided by an uplinked trash list including photographs.
 
FE-5 started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.        [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
FE-4 conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Volkov also undertook the periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on exercise equipment, the 2<sup>nd</sup> for him.    [Equipment used was VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and 8-channel ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  The test took place during an RGS (Russian Groundsite) overflight window (~5:31am EDT) via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.]
 
Mike Fossum gathered &amp; readied tools &amp; equipment required for his upcoming work on installing an IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) return jumper between Node-1 and the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) Leonardo’s vestibule to facilitate IMV flow when hatches are closed.  The outfitting is scheduled tomorrow.
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, the CDR turns on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Mike will turn MPC routing off again.       [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, Sergei will activate the RSE-LCS (Laser Communication System) A31p laptop in the SM to start recording data sent overnight per auto control protocol from the BTLS-N External Onboard Laser Communication Terminal via RS-232 line.  Tomorrow morning, FE-4 will dump (copy) the data from the RSE-LCS to the RSS2 laptop for data downlink, for another test of the TEKh-39 LCS (Russian: SLS) system.
 
At ~12:10pm EDT, Sergei Volkov supported three Russian PAO TV events by downlinking messages of greetings.       [The three events are (1) The”Manned Flight to Space” Conference on 10/18-21 by GCTC (Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center) and IMBP (Institute of Medical and Biological Problems), dedicated to the 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary of Gagarin flight to space.  The conference will be attended by Russian and foreign scientists and specialists, cosmonauts and astronauts.   (2) The 1<sup>st</sup> annual meeting of the young specialists of the city of Korolev, to take place at the ‘Vostok” rest house (Krasnodar region, Tuapse district, town of Novo-Mikhailovsky02) on 10/19-22, in line with the cadre policy of Korolev RSC-Energia and with the objective to share experience between the representatives of young specialists from enterprises and institutes of the city of Korolev; and (3) the Gala Jubilee Concert of the State Academic Kuban Cossack Choir, with participation of representatives of the highest state authorities, public, and Cossacks, taking place on 10/14 in Krasnodar in the Central Concert Hall of the Kuban Cossack Choir, devoted to the 200<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of the Choir.]
 
At ~2:50pm, FE-4 Volkov is scheduled for his standard weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
Tasks listed for Sergei Volkov on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Continuing the preparation &amp; downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Completing the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur), and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
Node-2 ISL Router Update:   Satoshi Furukawa's replacement of the ISL (Integrated Station LAN) network Router in Node-2 yesterday was successful.  The Router, in loc. Ovhd 4, is connected to a large number of Ethernet cables and a power cable.  To simplify the transfer of cable connections, the failed ISL Router was raised above the new ISL Router, and Satoshi did one-for one-cable swaps between the two units.  Afterwards MCC-H reconfigured the Router via SSCs (Station Support Computer) laptops #9 &amp; #11 and the ISL Interface panel.  ISS LAN (Local Area Network) and CSL (Crew Support LAN) networks are back to normal onboard ISS.     
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Niamey, Niger (Niger’s capital city lies on the Niger River.  With a population of only 250,000 in 1980, the city is now thought to house 1.5 million people), Caracas, Venezuela (nadir pass over Venezuela’s capital city [1.8 million].  Like many Latin American cities in the tropics, the city lies at cooler higher altitudes inland from the coast), Ampato Glaciers, Peru (the glaciers occupy several volcanic peaks in the region of the largest ice mass which caps Coropuna Volcano.  Looking just right of track between two major canyons.  Many tropical ice caps are melting fast.  Detailed images were requested to examine the present area of the ice), and Ubinas Volcano, Peru (this target appears immediately downtrack of the target above.  The summit of this caldera contains an ash cone, and debris avalanche deposits extending 10 km from the southeast flank of the volcano.  Ubinas is easier to identify than many Andean volcanoes as it is an isolated peak lying on the west flank of a very large canyon.  CEO staffers are seeking detailed, overlapping frames of the volcano summit and flanks).
 

