
US P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations:  Today, the ground teams and the USOS crew participated in an EVA Debrief conference to discuss any technical issues from the previously completed P6 Battery EVA#1 (US EVA#56) on Sunday October 6, which was the first of five planned P6 Solar Array battery upgrade EVAs.  The crew also participated in Post-EVA health checks as well as downlinking images of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) gloves for ground analysis.  In addition, the crew also completed EVA procedure reviews in preparation for the next planned P6 battery EVA. The second P6 battery EVA (US EVA#57) is scheduled on Friday, October 11.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  In support of the P6 Battery EVA#1, the Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS), and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) holding the External Pallet 8 (EP8) into position for the start of the Integrated Equipment Assembly (IEA) 2B batteries EVA #1 and removed power from the EP8. The Extra Vehicular (EV) crew egressed the airlock and moved to the IEA 2B worksite where they performed the following swaps with Intra Vehicular (IV) crew maneuvering the SSRMS+EP8 to the required positions:



Battery 1 (IEA) to EP X
Battery A (EP) to IEA Slot 1
Adapter Plate (AP) A to IEA slot 2
Battery 2 (IEA) to EP A
Battery 3 (IEA) to AP A located on IEA Slot 2 (get ahead task)
Battery B (EP) to IEA slot 3 (get ahead task)



The EV crew performed some additional get ahead tasks (releasing torque on some batteries H1 bolts for upcoming EVAs) and then cleaned up the worksite and ingressed. Following that, the IV crew maneuvered the SSRMS+EP8 to a back away position. SSRMS Ground Controllers maneuvered it to the overnight park position and powered down. 
Payloads:    
Actiwatch Plus: The crew charged and swapped four Actiwatch plus units. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data are stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Food Acceptability: The crew completed a Food Acceptability Survey. This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.

