
VEG-03 Operations: Today the crew continued to conduct Veg-03 operations that began last week by thinning out the plants to one plant per pillow, in order to promote growth of the larger plants. The crew then watered the plant pillows. The crew will now begin the autonomous space gardening phase of the experiment.  The Veg-03 investigation uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate a type of cabbage, lettuce, and mizuna. The first crew consumption harvest should be in about 3-4 weeks.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Configuration Change: Following the completion of last month’s Multi-Omics Mouse investigation, today the crew continued to perform closeout activities by changing the configuration of the CBEF from the Multi-Omics configuration, back to its nominal configuration. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) sub rack facility located in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack. The CBEF is used in various life science experiments, such as cultivating cells and plants in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and consists of an incubator and control equipment for control and communications. 
Clean Bench (CB) Valve Checkout: The crew conducted standard maintenance on the CB relief valves and the microscope stage clips, located inside the Saibo Rack. This maintenance activity is performed every 6 months to prevent the valves from sticking. The CB is a glovebox with a High-Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filter and a high-performance optical microscope.
Story Time from Space: Two crewmembers participated in the Story Time from Space activity by reading “Max Goes to Mars” and “Sunset” on camera. The video recordings will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time from Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  EVA preparations continued today with setup of Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) and camera configuration and battery charging.  A trio of EVAs will begin with the Latching End Effector (LEE) R&R EVA on Thursday. 
Eye Exams:  Two crewmembers underwent eye exams using the onboard ultrasound device.  Periodic eye exams are critical for monitoring crew health.

