ISS On-Orbit Status 10/01/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway:  Week 14 of Increment 33 (three-person crew).
 
After wakeup, FE-4 Malenchenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  Yuri also completed the periodic (daily) reboot of the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops.
 
Afterwards, Malenchenko conducted the periodic checkup of circuit breakers &amp; fuses in the MRM2 Poisk module.      [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 &amp; MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &amp; BPP-36.  MRM2 &amp; MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.]
 
In addition, FE-4 conducted the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM of a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
In the Lab, CDR Williams worked on ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2) at loc. O1, installing the new software, Release 8.0, on the RIC (Rack Interface Controller) using the ER-2 T61p laptop.    [Suni then removed the Quatech Card from the T61p and stowed it.]
 
FE-6 Hoshide performed the approximately weekly WRS (Water Recovery System) analysis of WPA (Water Processor Assembly) samples using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  Aki later transferred the results of the analysis to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and also logged the data.
 
In the Lab, Akihiko opened the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment and activated the ISSAC laptop, so ground images can be captured by ground commanding.       [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
Aki also performed IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) on the Lab ventilation system, inspecting and cleaning the IMV (Intermodule Ventilation) fan and silencer at the Forward Port.
 
Malenchenko supported the overnight run of the TEKh-39 LCS (Laser Communications System, Russian: SLS) in the SM by copying the data collected overnight from the RSE-SLS A31p laptop to the RSS2 laptop for data downlink and log file dump, supported by ground specialist tagup.  Later tonight, before sleeptime, Yuri will activate the RSE-LCS laptop again to commence recording for TEKh-39 LCS.
 
FE-6 conducted another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.      [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
Working in the Node-3 WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment), the CDR performed the periodic removal &amp; replacement of the E-K pre-treat tank and its hose, discarding the used units as trash and restowing the tools.      [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> (sulfuric acid), CrO<sub>3</sub> (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H<sub>2</sub>O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in the DKiV dispenser and used for toilet flushing.]
 
FE-4 Malenchenko started a new round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today working in the SM for about 2h 30m for cleaning its numerous Group A ventilator fans &amp; grilles.
 
Later, Yuri moved to the MRM2 Poisk module to clean its VD1 &amp; VD2 air ducts.
 
In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Suni Williams booted up the DTN (Delay Tolerant Network) laptop from the currently installed DVD.      [The DTN experiment will establish the initial communications network for follow-on telerobotics studies, primarily led by ESA.  It is the first international flight experiment that uses delay/disruption-tolerant networking, which is a model for future cooperation in exploration.  Background: Delay/disruption-tolerant networking is an approach to computer network architecture with communication lines that may not have continuous network connectivity, resulting in a lack of instantaneous end-to-end paths. Examples of such networks are those operating in mobile or extreme terrestrial environments, or planned networks in space.  Many DTN projects have to date been funded by DARPA.  As opposed to routing protocols which first establish a complete route before forwarding actual data, DTN deals with communications where instantaneous end-to-end paths are difficult or impossible to establish.  These routing protocols must take to a "store and forward" approach, where data is incrementally moved and stored throughout the network in hopes that it will eventually reach its destination. A common technique used to maximize the probability of a message being successfully transferred is to replicate and forward many copies of the message.]
 
After activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) activated, Suni finished the set-up for the InSPACE-3 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 3) experiment started at 8/24/12, by installing a video multipurpose arm inside MSG and loaded three video tapes.  MSG was turned off again.
 
With the ATV3 successfully departed, Yuri dismantled the PCE (Proximity Communications Equipment/MBRL) Z0000 unit in SM (behind panels 225 &amp; 226) and stowed it in the FGB, then re-mated the KSK2 cables from PCE to the BKIPN (Payload Monitoring &amp; Status Indication Unit).
 
Next, Malenchenko conducted a familiarization review of the Russian experiment OBR-2/Mati-75, then performed the experiment for three cases with recording by videocam.    [OBRAZOVANIE (Education) is a class of educational demonstrations of science in micro-G.  OBR-2/MATI-75 was developed by the students and staff of MATI, K. E. Tsiolkovsky Russian State Technological University, and is dedicated to the 150<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of the founder of the theoretical space science and 75<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of MATI.  It is a demonstration of the shape and size recovery (memory) of blanks made from cellular polymeric materials (Poroplast) in microgravity.  Poroplastic pieces have been precompressed on the ground, approximately 10 times to their original size, and preserved in this condition until delivery to the ISS.  When heated to a certain temperature, foamed polymers should recover their original size and shape, and after cooling, they retain and regain their stiffness and strength.  Laminar cellular polymeric-based composites with memory effect belong to the so-called smart technologies and will allow creating on the ground space-saving collapsible light-weight but large-scale space structures to be delivered to the required location, where they, when commanded, and under the impact of certain internal or external factors spontaneously can assume and retain operational shape and size. This cutting-edge technology has significant advantages over emerging technologies for mechanically deployed or inflatable reinforced large-scale structures. This technology can be applied not only in building structures in near-Earth orbits but in deep space or other planets, as well as on the ground.]
 
In preparation for SpaceX-1 Dragon arrival, Hoshide set up the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation) and then he and Suni conducted the 2<sup>nd</sup> Offset Grapple simulation session with the ROBoT trainer, which also included an off-nominal scenario. A 10-min. debriefing with the ground followed at ~1:10pm.     [After the ground powered up into the Hot Backup configuration and arranged to send “Safing” during the last approach, Suni &amp; Aki then had the opportunity to practice a Hot Backup transition and back-away, including the CCP (Crew Command Panel) relocation to the Lab RWS.] 
 
FE-4 Malenchenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
FE-4 also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
FE-6 completed a session with the Japanese psychological POMS (Profile of Mood States) experiment, filling out his questionnaire for downlink to ground specialist.
 
Afterwards, Akihiko performed a file update on the DMU (Data Management Unit) of the HRF-2 PFS (Human Research Facility 2 Pulmonary Function System) to fix a communications issue between the DMU and a Window XP operating system.
 
Before sleeptime, Malenchenko initiated charging the battery of the Russian TEKh-62 ALBEDO payload.
 
Before Presleep (~3:30pm), the CDR powers up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Suni turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [CDR &amp; FE-6 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Suni on Friday, for Aki on Thursday.  If any day is not completed, Suni &amp; Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day.]
 
After his SPRINT workout on the T2 machine, Aki closed down the treadmill software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.     [After the display shutdown, the T2 rack is power cycled (turned off/on) from the ground, and T2 is then ready for use.  These power cycles allow for the T2 data to be transferred to the Server for downlink.] 
 
Tasks listed for FE-4 Malenchenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 


