
Payloads:        
Immersive Exercise:  A crewmember charged the Wireless VR Headset with the Pilote Headset Cable on the USB multiport in preparation for Immersive Exercise operations.  The Immersive Exercise project focuses on the development of a virtual reality (VR) environment for biking sessions aboard the International Space Station (ISS). The VR equipment is interfaced with the current bicycle exerciser aboard the ISS, Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS), located in the United States “Destiny” Laboratory Module.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-19 (J-SSOD-19):  A crewmember took photos of the deployed satellite from JEM Launcher 1.  The JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS.  The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Systems:
LAB1D2 Joint Station Lan (JSL) Router Cable Connections: Today, the crew performed the JSL cable connections for the newly installed router in LAB1D2. The crew ran into some trouble while performing the cable connections but were able to work through the issues and complete the activity. The newly installed router and cable connections are part of the JSL 14.0 software transition. The transition to JSL 14.0 will provide updates to several systems as well as increase the capacity and speed of the JSL network. 
T2 Rack Center and Crewed ACO: After discovering that three of the T2 Snubbers were out of alignment yesterday, today the crew centered the rack and reperformed the crewed ACO. Both activities went nominally, and the crew took pictures and video for ground teams to review. Due to the JSL outage associated with the JSL Ethernet Connections, the crew cannot downlink the pictures or video until after the activity is completed. The crew used one of the camcorders onboard to give ground teams a preliminary look at the T2 Snubbers. Based on this preliminary look, ground teams have declared T2 GO for use, contingent on their review of the actual video and pictures once they are downlinked.
Node 3 Fwd 3 IMV Screen R&R: After the crew inspected the Node 3 Fwd 3 IMV screen, ground teams decided to schedule an R&R. The crew replaced the IMV screen with a new 3D printed screen that will allow for better airflow and easier cleaning.

