
Reconfiguration of the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) for the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Flame Extinguishment (FLEX)-2 Experiment:  Today Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg reconfigured and replaced hardware in the MDCA to support operation of the FLEX-2 experiment.  FLEX-2 is the second experiment on the ISS which uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will provide insight into how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight):  FE-5 Parmitano continued his 10 day session of ESA’s ENERGY experiment.  He took precise measurements of his intake and output of liquids and solids and performed multiple measurements of his oxygen uptake.  A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a common observation during space flight.  ENERGY measures change in energy balance in crewmembers following long term space flight.  It also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge is of great importance to ensure optimal crew health and performance, overall mission success, and to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food are provided while the crew is on-orbit.
Microbiome Body Sampling:  FE-3 Hopkins performed his Flight Day (FD) 07 session of the Microbiome investigation. This included taking surface samples in the ISS, performing body sample collections, and inserting samples into cold stowage.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the ISS, periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken. As part of this study, the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments, and the related human health risk, will be assessed.
Ocular Health (OH):  FE-3 Hopkins started a series of activities to be performed in the next three days in support of the Ocular Health payload, completing his FD10 session. With FE-6 Nyberg performing as the Crew Medical Officer, Hopkin’s blood pressure and vital signs were measured and vision and tonometry tests performed.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Sabatier Failure:  Sabatier failed today. Ground teams attempted to restart the Sabatier System, however restart was unsuccessful.  Teams will be investigating root cause and further troubleshooting steps.  Sabatier uses a catalyst that reacts with carbon dioxide and hydrogen, both byproducts of current life-support systems onboard the ISS in order to produce water and methane.

