
Crew-5 Launch: At 11:00 AM CT today, SpaceX Crew Dragon Endurance lifted off from Launch Complex -39A at Kennedy Space Center on a Falcon 9 rocket and is scheduled to dock to the ISS tomorrow afternoon at 3:57 PM CT. Crew Dragon Endurance carries NASA astronauts Nicole Mann and Josh Cassada, JAXA astronaut Koichi Wakata, and Roscosmos cosmonaut Anna Kikina. The crew complement onboard the ISS will increase from 7 to 11 upon Crew-5 arrival.
Payloads:
Vascular Aging: Glucometer and blood tubes were set up in preparation for the Vascular Aging Glucose Test protocol. Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Adapter Replace and Drain/Fill: Today, the crew removed and replaced (R&Red) the Recycle Tank Vent Adapter. They then set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiate & Terminate: As part of regularly scheduled maintenance, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC ЕДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-СВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the ЕДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Crew-5 Arrival Preparations: Several activities were completed in preparation for the arrival of Crew-5. The iWatch battery was charged using the Multi-port USB charger and stowed. The Node 2 Forward hatch was opened and ventilated to remove any stagnant air, checked for loose items, and then closed. First use supplies and other preference items were staged for arriving crew. The crew also participated in a Dragon Rendezvous Operations Conference to discuss last minute updates.
Maintenance Activities: A number of maintenance activities were performed by the crew. The Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) monthly inspection was completed. A photo documentation audit of cable tie quantities was performed. The crew cleaned up and audited the Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Accessories Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB). Lastly, the crew continued the hatch seal inspections started yesterday for a subset of open USOS hatches.
Joint Station LAN (JSL) 20-Port Switch Cable Modification and Japanese Excursion Module (JEM) 20-Port Network Switch Deploy: A spare uninstalled ground wire for JSL Ethernet Switch power cable was modified. The ring ground terminal was replaced on the ground wire with a larger ring terminal. The crew then replaced the existing 16-Port Ethernet Switch with a 20-Port Network Switch.
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container (CWC)-Iodine Fill: The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater. Today’s activity involved transferring water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-Iodine container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). Iodine was added to purify the water. The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-Iodine from over-pressurization.

