
Multi-Omics Sample Collections: A 52S crewmember collected fecal samples for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics experiment. The samples were placed into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem (Multi-Omics) investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
Veg-03 Operations: The crew photodocumented the status of the plants in the Veggie facility, and evaluated the plant pillows to determine if additional watering is required. The Veg-03 investigation uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate a type of cabbage, lettuce and mizuna which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate a type of cabbage, lettuce and mizuna which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.
USOS Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) 45 Preparation: Today the crew reconfigured necessary EVA tools, reviewed procedures, and participated in a conference with ground EVA planners in support of next week’s EVA.  The goals of this EVA include: Removal and Replacement of the degraded CP9 camera and lubrication of the Latching End Effector (LEE) B.
External Robotics Operations:  Over the weekend, robotics ground controllers walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) onto Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 3 (PDGF3).  They then maneuvered SSRMS as required to perform a video and imagery survey of the Latching End Effector B (LEE-B) snare cables using an External High Definition Camera (EHDC).  Once the survey was completed, the SSRMS was walked off onto MBS PDGF4 in preparation of US EVA 45 scheduled tomorrow (GMT 283). 

