
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer 10 (J-SSOD#10):  On Saturday, Robotics Controllers in Tsukuba, Japan maneuvered the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to the small satellite deploy position and deployed the Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Demonstration (JSSOD)-10 satellites.  The crew supported the activity by taking photographs of the three small satellites as they were deployed.   
Lighting Effects: The crew conducted a Visual Performance Test for the Lighting Effects investigation today. They stowed the hardware in COL1F4, set the light to the correct mode, turned all other light sources in the Crew Quarters off, and performed a Numerical Verification Test, followed by a Color Discrimination Test. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Biochemical Profile: A crewmember collected Flight Day 120 blood and urine samples for the Biochemical Profile and Repository investigations today. The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. 
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): Today the eight detectors were retrieved from the Russian crew and deployed in the NOD3F3 Rack Front area. This Canadian Space Agency investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS.  These bubble detectors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): Crew removed Flow Cell from the Biomolecule Sequencer and stowed the hardware. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
Life Support Rack (LSR) Outfitting: The Crew removed the restraining launch locks from the LSR today. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR will operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions. 
Basic Express Rack 9 (ER-9B) Outfitting and Activation:  The Crew manually adjusted the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) flow rate to the newly installed rack within the Columbus module.  In addition, they worked with the ground teams and successfully performed the initial activation and checkout of the rack. 
IVA Procedure Review:  Serena reviewed an EVA System Briefing Package in support of the Battery EVAs planned for October 19 and 25.  The package contained reminders, emergency briefing, helpful tips, and procedures used by the IV Crewmember during EVAs. 

