
Payloads
Astrobee: The crew powered on the Astrobee system, and the ground team performed a series of file transfers and commands.  The goal was to perform several tasks as a continuation of the checkout for the upcoming Robo Pro Challenge.  The Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS). This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
Avatar-X Setup: The crew performed part 1 of the setup for the Avatar-X system.  This involved installing the Avatar-X camera to the JEM airlock handrail.  Setup will continue next week.  JEM Commercial (Avatar-X, or Kibo Avatar-X) demonstrates remote robot technology, Avatar-X, a 4K Camera, a new encoding method developed by ANA HOLDINGS INC. (All Nippon Airways). A user on Earth remotely controls a camera, installed near the window of the Japanese Experiment Module, to see the view from space.
Nanoracks Platform-2 (PF-2) Troubleshooting: In response to communication issues first seen on 24-September, the crew performed a more in-depth troubleshooting of the connections from Platform-2 to the EXPRESS rack.  Unfortunately, they encountered what Nanoracks believes is a failed computer in PF-2 and were not able to recover it.  The Nanoracks ground team is discussing a forward plan.  Nanoracks Platforms are multipurpose research facilities on board the ISS. Nanoracks Platforms support Nanoracks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity. 
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL3) Controller Swap: The crew performed the steps necessary to replace the currently-installed CO2controller with another unit.  The current CO2 controller is having difficulty reaching the 5% concentration set point needed for upcoming experiment activities.  SABL supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and experiments. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 for cell cultures and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28 Vdc and 5 Vdc power supplies for experiment use.
Systems
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed Max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.
Periodic Health Exam (PHS): Today the crew completed a periodic health evaluation. During the evaluation, vital signs are obtained and an ear examination is conducted by taking images of the tympanic membranes and the external ear. The data and imagery is then downlinked for review by a medical specialist. This is the final PHS for the 62S crew prior to their return home.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator Replacement:  Today the crew replaced the pump separator (MHP-HC) in the Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC). Since September 12, the WHC check separator light has illuminated numerous times, an indication the pump separator was approaching its end of life and would likely fail in the near future. Ground specialists opted to preemptively remove and replace (R&R) the pump instead of running the hardware to failure in anticipation of upcoming vehicle traffic. Following the R&R, the pump separator and WHC System are performing nominally.

