ISS On-Orbit Status 10/09/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    
 
 Crew wake/sleep cycle has been adjusted to accommodate Soyuz undocking tomorrow night:  After nominal wakeup this morning at 2:00am EDT, the crew has a long day, with a 4-hr midday “nap” inserted (10:00am-2:00pm), and then continuing until 11:00pm bedtime.  Wakeup tomorrow morning: 9:00am.
 
 FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk, FE-5 De Winne &amp; FE-5-21 Williams continued their week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Jeff’s first, logging data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Also after wakeup, Barratt, Stott, Thirsk, De Winne &amp; Williams performed their third blood collections and final liquid saliva collections for the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE, taking turns as subjects and operators for the individual blood draws.  The saliva return pouches and blood sleeves were stored at ambient temperature on the Soyuz TMA-14 for return to the ground.    [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]
 
 FE-2 Stott took documentary photographs of the INTEGRATED IMMUNE blood &amp; saliva samples as they were stowed on the Russian spacecraft, along with a verbal description of the samples’ packaging and stow location.     [Purpose: to aid the ground team in Kazakhstan in quickly locating and identifying the samples after touchdown.]
 
 At ~4:45am EDT, CDR Padalka &amp; FE-1 Barratt conducted a 1-hr tagup with ground specialists to discuss aspects of descent procedures during Soyuz return to Earth tomorrow evening.    [Among else, details pertained to the use of the IKV-1 Infrared Vertical Sensor1 and the switch to the second string IKV2 in the event of failure, inputting &amp; monitoring the PRVI Manual Input Display on the InPU-2 Integrated Control Panel, and offnominal maneuver settings.] 
 
 Barratt/Williams and Romanenko/Suraev again had several hours of joint time for handover activities, with the departing crewmember drilling his replacement on station systems &amp; procedures.
 
 Padalka continued the elaborate task of packing and stowing cargo on the TMA-14 ship, with ~5 hrs allotted for the work on his timeline and assisted in part by Romanenko.      [Earth return cargo, mostly samples from science payloads, was stowed in the 18S Descent Module; expended equipment, waste &amp; trash went into the Orbital Module, to be jettisoned during reentry for burn-up, along with the Propulsion/Instrumentation Compartment.  Returning cargo includes SFP Laliberté’s photo/video camera equipment, memory cards &amp; sticks, video cassettes, and symbolic/commemorative items.]
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) Stott serviced the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) by opening the door to the Micro-G IU (Incubation Unit) and manually fanning the air inside for ventilation for a few minutes.  The activity was repeated several hours later.    [After exchanging the CBEF Dehumidifier, the CaCl<sub>2</sub> (Calcium Chloride) worked well to dehumidify the CBEF for a few days, but recently the humidity inside the CBEF incubator units has been increasing about 3.5% per day which is more than SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center/Tsukuba) expected.  It is believed that CaCl<sub>2</sub> has formed a layer of gel which impairs the chemical’s dehumidification ability.  Unless prevented, humidity is predicted to reach 70% in a week, which would cause loss of science.]
 
 Nicole also completed the monthly routine maintenance of all four CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units, replacing the battery of the prime unit with a fresh spare (#1132), and performing zero-calibration on all units with the calibration pump, then taking &amp; downlinking readings before and after the zeroing.    [The CSA-CP is a passive cabin atmosphere monitor that provides quick response capability during a combustion event (fire).  Its collected data are stored on a logger.  The current prime unit, #1053, was returned to its station in the SM (Service Module), the other units, #1060, #1057, #1055, to stowage.]
 
 Later today, after her midday nap, Nicole will have the distinctive honor of being the first runner on the new T2 treadmill, when she takes COLBERT through the scheduled High Speed Test, following a prescribed (built-in) protocol of speed and duration.     [Before the run, the FE-2 will set up three camcorders for recording the trial (two in Lab, one in Node-2), and print out the Tech Calibration Sheet for logging all manned T2 ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout) tests.  COLBERT is noisy, and crewmembers inside Node-2 must wear hearing protection during T2 operation.]
 
 In the JAXA JPM, FE-1 Barratt worked on the newly installed AmiA (Antimicrobial Applicator), removing its insulation jackets to allow temperatures to equalize.     [AmiA must remain installed in the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) loop for at least 7 hours before equalization.  After its installation yesterday, flow through AmiA has been completed and the canister isolated.  The AmiA introduces OPA (Ortho-Phthalaldehyde), an antimicrobial agent, into the Kibo ITCS coolant.]
 
 FE-4 Thirsk downloaded the ICV CDP (Integrated Cardiovascular Cardiopres) data that Nicole collected earlier this week, from the CBPD (Continuous Blood Pressure Device) to the Cardiolab computer in the EPM (European Physiology Module) rack, and FE-5 De Winne then transferred the data from the EPM to the HRF (Human Research Facility) PC1 via a USB thumb drive for downlink.
 
 In preparation for a new session of the BAR science payload, FE-3 Romanenko &amp; FE-1-21 Suraev terminated battery charging for the KPT-2 Kelvin-Video payload and initiated the charging process on the TTM-2 battery.   [Objective of the Russian BAR-EXPERT payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 To prepare for his return to gravity tomorrow night, Gennady Padalka undertook Part 2 of his fifth and final training session of the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular evaluation in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP) on the Russian VELO ergometer, assisted by Romanenko as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  The activity was then closed out.     [The one-hour assessment, supported by ground specialist tagup (VHF) and telemetry monitoring from Russian ground sites (at 6:39am EDT, on DO2), uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels. The Chibis ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Padalka’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after several months in zero-G.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by two cycles of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -35, and -40 mmHg for five min. each, then -25, -30, and -40 mmHg (Torr) for 10 min. each plus 30mmHg for 5 min. while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
 Padalka &amp; Suraev performed the MO-22 Sanitary-Epidemiological Status check, part of the Russian MedOps program done usually before Soyuz departures.    [To monitor for microflora, Gennady &amp; Maxim collected samples from surface areas of interior panels and hardware at various places in the SM and the FGB, also from each other, using cotton swabs and special test tubes which were then stowed in 17S for return to the ground.]
 
 Bob Thirsk conducted the periodic manual filling of the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) flush water tank (EDV-SV).    [If the tank fill caused the red WHC “Pretreat Bad Qual” LED to be illuminated on the ASU control panel, Mike was to clear it.]
 
 Jeff Williams completed the now regular transfer of pre-treated Russian urine directly from EDV-U container into the Lab UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) for processing, done each morning for about 5 minutes.
 
 Working in the U.S. A/L (Airlock), Jeff conducted a LAS (Load Alleviating Strap) inspection on EVA (Extravehicular Activity) waist &amp; safety tethers, checking for damage.
 
 Also in the Quest A/L, Williams terminated discharge of the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) battery set up yesterday in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly), and initiated the process on the next battery, #2079, using BC4 (Battery Charger 4) for maintenance requirements and stowage.
 
 Barratt, Thirsk &amp; De Winne had time set aside for filling out their regular weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-5 De Winne removed the YNG/Yeast ECs (Experiment Containers) B1 &amp; B2 from the BLB TCU (Biolab Thermal Control Unit) and packed them for return to Earth.
 
 Romanenko &amp; Suraev continued preparations of the Russian “Istochnik-M” (source, spring) telemetry reception &amp; recording (SPR TMI) system in the SM for tomorrow night’s Soyuz return, today installing a newly uplinked software patch on the system’s RSE1 laptop.   [Istochnik-M enables the ISS to receive telemetry from Soyuz spacecraft during return to Earth and record it on the SPR telemetry system.    [The equipment, including the Istochnik TM station, power amplifiers, power supply, USB software sticks and cables, will capture Soyuz 18S data through the “Sputnik” amateur (ham) radio antenna, and transfer it to a laptop display where the crew will be able to immediately tell if a good separation of the three Soyuz modules occurred during 18S descent operations].
 
 Maxim continued the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, working in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) to clean all the ventilation screens on the interior panels.
 
 The FE-1-21 also completed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.
 
 Additionally, Maxim undertook the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Roman did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Frank De Winne is scheduled later today to complete the setup of the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) and then perform his first VO<sub>2</sub>Max session, with ground specialists standing by for support as required.  Afterwards, he is to tear down and stow the hardware.    [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>Max uses the PPFS, CEVIS cycle, PFS gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol comprises 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 250-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cooldown period follows at the 25% load.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
 FE-1 &amp; FE-4 have their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) on their timeline, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Bob at ~6:10pm, Mike at ~9:00pm EDT.
 
 Thirsk is also scheduled to perform the regular weekly maintenance on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices), SLD cables and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time &amp; date values.
 
 Maxim Suraev had ~15 min set aside for re-familiarization with the hardware and protocol of the ARED advanced resistive exercise device.
 
 The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5-21), ARED (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-1-21), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).
 
 Later, Barratt transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 At ~4:30am EDT, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 After setting up the G1 video camcorder with MPC (Multipurpose Converter) and IPU (Image Processing Unit) for High-Definition PAO TV downlink, at ~3:00pm the combined ISS crews will conduct their traditional Change-of-Command ceremony, as Expedition 20 crewmembers Gennady Padalka &amp; Mike Barratt turn ISS operations over to the Expedition 21 crew of Frank De Winne, Maxim Suraev, Nicole Stott, Roman Romanenko, Bob Thirsk &amp; Jeff Williams.   With this event, stewardship of the space station is officially transferred to the new crew.    [As part of the Change-of-Command ceremony, the Russian crewmembers early this morning signed two copies of the formal Russian handover protocol document certifying RS handover/acceptance.  The first copy remains on ISS, the second copy will be returned to the ground on Soyuz TMA-14.]
 
 WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked last night to the crew for their reference, updated with yesterday’s CWC (Collapsible Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (20-0055V) lists 79 CWCs (~1,823.0 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (66 CWCs with 1,438.8 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 225.9 L for flushing only due to Wautersia bacteria &amp; 176.2 L in 4 clean bags for contingency use, 2. potable water (8 CWCs with 323.1 L, of which 194.8 L (5 bags) are currently off-limit pending ground analysis results), the remainder good for contingency use, 3. condensate water (3 CWCs, empty), 4. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 61.1 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 AgCam Update:   After more troubleshooting of the AgCam (Agricultural Camera) by Mike Barratt last weekend (laptop swap), the ground team ran a checkout on the system but still without success.  The laptop swap positively confirms that the problem lies within the AgCam PDC (Power /Data Controller).  The current plan is to deactivate and stow the AgCam in the near future, return the PDC to the ground and work out a recovery plan.   [AgCam is a multi-spectral camera for use on the ISS as a payload of the WORF (Window Observational Research Facility).  Primary AgCam system components include an Imaging System Assembly, a Base Mount Pointing Assembly, a Power/Data Controller, associated cabling and support items, and a NASA-supplied A31p laptop and power supply.  When functional, it will take frequent images, in visible and infrared light, of vegetated areas on the Earth, principally of growing crops, rangeland, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  Images will be delivered within 2 days directly to requesting farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land for which they are responsible.  Images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.  The Agricultural Camera was built and is operated primarily by students and faculty at the University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, ND.]
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo target uplinked for today was Mount Rainier, WA (Mount Rainier, 4392 m, is the highest peak in the Cascade Range and forms a dramatic backdrop to the Puget Sound region.  The present-day summit cone was formed during a major mixed-magma explosive eruption about 2200 years ago and is capped by two overlapping craters.  Rainier is located 54 miles southeast of Seattle, Washington.  The most recent officially recorded volcanic eruptions occurred between 1820 and 1854.  While there is no sign of an imminent eruption of Rainier, the volcano is not dormant and is expected to erupt again.  This is especially significant because of the proximity of the volcano to the cities of Tacoma and south Seattle.  About 5000 years ago the Osceola mudflow initiated by a Rainier eruption covered the site of present-day Tacoma.  Overlapping images were requested.) 
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a> (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 
