
Nanoracks Module-9:  Gerst continued with Module-9 operations which began in Increment 40. This is the 3rd of 5 module-9 sessions.  Today’s activities included deactivating and shaking designated mixture tubes. This 3rd session is performed 14 days before SpaceX-4 unberth.  Module-9 is a collection of student research projects utilizing the NanoRacks Mixsticks.The NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science Education investigation results from a commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE), called the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP). Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of 19 different science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the International Space Station (ISS).
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities:  Wiseman, Gerst, and Wilmore participated in a post-EVA debrief with ground specialists to discuss how the EVA went yesterday.  Gerst and Wiseman also performed a post-EVA medical assessment.  In addition, Wiseman and Wilmore reviewed procedures with a follow-on review with ground specialists in preparation for EVA 28, which is scheduled on October 15, 2014 to change out the Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) 3A.
Cygnus Hardware Command Panel (HCP) and PROX Checkout:  Today, Gerst assembled the HCP and worked with ground teams in order to checkout string “B” of the Proximity Communications System (PROX).  PROX is a wireless communications system that enables direct communications between the Cygnus spacecraft and ISS.  Utilizing the HCP, ISS Crew has the ability to send commands for Cygnus to retreat to 30m or 100m below ISS, hold approach, free drift, or abort during its final approach to the ISS. Cygnus Launch Commit Criteria Flight Rules require verification of two fully functional ISS PROX equipment strings prior to launch. PROX String “A” will be checked out tomorrow.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Upper Stop Cable Change Out:  Wilmore completed a change out of the ARED left upper stop cable, which was reported as failed on Monday, 06 October. ARED has been cleared for nominal exercise operations.
ATV5 Reboost:  Today, an ISS reboost using Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 thrusters was successfully completed. This reboost sets up phasing for Progress 57 4-orbit rendezvous, currently scheduled to occur on October 29th. In addition, the reboost cleared the ISS from a potential conjunction.

