
Ocular Health (OH):  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins completed a series of activities performed over the last three days in support of the Ocular Health payload, satisfying his flight day 10 session. With FE-5 Parmitano supporting as the Crew Medical Officer, ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans and blood pressure measurements were taken of Hopkins.  In-flight data collection was assisted by remote guidance from the Ground to ensure proper positioning and data collection. Ocular ultrasound is used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Diapason Experiment:  Parmitano set up the Diapason instrument and performed the last of five experiment runs. This experiment studies nano-particles migration and capture achieved by very small thermal gradients. The particle size range of 2 nm to 1 micron allows the monitoring of combustion-generated pollution and the identification of atmospheric contaminants on-board ISS.
US Segment Crew Handover: Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg continued their handover with newly arrived crewmember Hopkins. Topics included recommendations for on-orbit practices, lessons learned, and familiarization of ISS Systems and Payloads within each USOS module.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain: Parmitano performed brine transfer from the recycle tank onto Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) Water Delivery System Tank 3, utilizing a compressor.  Recycle tanks are reusable bladders that hold resultant brine following waste processing from the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA).
Cygnus Cabin Fan Status:  The Cygnus Cabin fan was unpowered by MCC-Dulles Tuesday due to erratic delta pressure readings. In an effort to gather additional trend data, the fan is being activated daily during crew wake periods then deactivated prior to crew sleep. Results from this trending data will help ground teams decide whether to activate the fan permanently or not.

