
Payloads:
Autonomous Systems and Operations – EXPRESS 2.5 (AMO-EXPRESS 2.5): The crew performed simulated EXPRESS Rack 7 activities within the AMO EXPRESS software. AMO-EXPRESS 2.5 conducts tests using automation and decision support software to help crew members manage spacecraft subsystems. The ability to perform such tasks without assistance from Mission Control is vital for future space exploration such as a mission to Mars, where significant time delays will occur in communications between space and ground. Using automation and decision support software to guide astronauts through complex spacecraft subsystem management activities also reduces the time needed to perform a task.
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Soft Matter Dynamics (SMD) – FOAM: Three Foam Coarsening Samples were exchanged inside the SMD Experiment Container in the Central Experiment Module Lower drawer (CEM Lower) of the FSL. FSL Soft Matter Dynamics – Hydrodynamics of Wet Foams (Foam Coarsening) aims to investigate bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”. Microgravity offers the opportunity to investigate such “wet” foams, which cannot be stabilized on Earth because of drainage. Moreover, microgravity conditions are essential to study rearrangement phenomena, such as coarsening and coalescence, disentangled from drainage.
Immunosenescence: Immunosenescence obsolete hardware was consolidated now that operations are completed. Microgravity as a Model for Immunological Senescence and its Impact on Tissue Stem Cells and Regeneration (Immunosenescence) studies the effects of microgravity on cells involved in tissue regeneration and whether recovery occurs post-flight. Results could provide insight into whether effects of the biological aging process can be reversed.
Space Automated Lab Incubator-1 (SALI-1): SALI-1 was removed from the EXPRESS locker and the SALI-1 computer was reset to allow for ground commanding as part of troubleshooting steps. The recovery was unsuccessful, and SALI-1 was physically re-installed back into the rack locker but remains unpowered until return. SALI-1 supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences, focusing on research on biological systems and processes. It provides a 24-liter temperature-controlled chamber ranging from -20.0°C to +48.0°C, continuous maintenance-free operation, and LED lighting. SALI accommodates multiple sample packs or habitats and also serves as back-up cold stowage.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): A search was conducted for missing UNIGLO hardware that is planned for return. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Aft AC Inverter Secure: Deployed AC Inverters were audited in Cupola, Node 1, and Node 3, and GFCI Cables were secured to the inverter using dual zip ties.
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between the US and IP Russia, the crew continues to transfer water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Aft Reorganization: The crew backfilled several Aft compartments in PMM Zero-G Stowage Racks (ZSRs) and stowed CWC-Is in PMM standoffs while the ZSRs are rotated.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: The crew completed a regular maintenance inspection to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition. The crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play.
Hatch Seal Inspection: A cleaning and inspection of the USOS Hatch Seals and Hatch Plate Sealing Surface for a subset of open hatches was completed. Additionally, the crew inspected the Crank Handle Mechanism, Hatch Seal Interlocking Joints and PMM Hatch Kicker Pins.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Activities: The crew removed foreign object or debris (FOD) from the Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan inlet flow straightener and silencers located at the Node 1 Starboard Aft location. The crew also inspected and continuity-checked the Overhead Crew Quarters (CQ) Bump-Out Power/Data Cable A and Crew Quarters Bump-Out Power/Data Cable B.

