
Vehicle Traffic: 
65S Launch and Dock: 65S successfully launched at 3:55 AM CT from the Baikonur Cosmodrome with Cosmonaut Anton Shkaplerov, Spaceflight Participant Klim Shipenko, and Spaceflight Participant Yulia Peresild on board. The vehicle docked at MRM1 at 7:22 AM CT. The ISS complement has increased to 8 crewmembers and 2 spaceflight participants and will remain so until 64S undock on October 17th.
Payloads:
TELe-Luminescence Analysis System (TELLAS):  A crewmember installed the Calibration Light Source into the Observation System to calibrate the Tele-Luminescence Analysis System. TELLAS is an experimental facility that uses luminescence and an imager to make observations of tissues/genes in small living animals. Such in-vivo observations facilitate the study of mechanisms related to aging in the microgravity environment. Installed in the Kibo module, the TELLAS facility can provide information that contributes to aging research and improves the health and longevity of people on Earth.
FLUIDICS:  A crewmember initiated the Science Run #2. The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Soft Matter Dynamics & Compacted Granulars:  A crewmember fully tightened all the connectors of the Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Soft Matter Dynamics (SMD) harness.  FSL Soft Matter Dynamics – Hydrodynamics of Wet Foams (Foam Coarsening) aims to investigate bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”.  Microgravity offers the opportunity to investigate such “wet foams”, which cannot be stabilized on Earth because of drainage. Moreover, microgravity conditions are essential to study rearrangement phenomena, such as coarsening and coalescence, disentangled from drainage.
JAXA Protein Crystallization Growth (PCG):  A crewmember received JAXA PCG #18 protein samples from the Russian crew and initiated sample crystallization. The samples were then stowed into cold stowage. The objective of the JAXA PCG investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are then returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail; the structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs and to explore the mystery of human lives. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a Soyuz or Progress Vehicle and crystallized at 20℃ using the counter-diffusion method.
Lumina (Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter):  A crewmember performed a Lumina data transfer from the LUMINA device via the EveryWear Application on the crew iPad. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-rays, X-rays, photons, or neutrons. 
Systems:
Cygnus Cargo Operations:  Today, the crew performed NG-16 cargo transfer operations and will continue to work on NG-16 cargo operations throughout the week. NG-16 is currently scheduled for unberth on November 20th.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Manned Activation and Checkout (ACO):  Today, the crew performed a crewed ACO on T2 to ensure the components were performing nominally before the ground could declare T2 GO for use. This activity comes a day after the crew performed the Countermeasures System (CMS) T2 Rack Centering in which the crew realigned the T2 Snubbers within the Snubber Cups. The ground inspected the T2 post-realignment pictures and noticed that some of the Snubbers were out of place and requested the crew to inspect. The crew reported that the top left, top right, and bottom right Snubbers are out of alignment. T2 is NOGO while ground teams build a forward plan. 
ISS Crew Safety Briefing:  With the arrival of the 65S crew, all crewmembers and spaceflight participants participated in a safety briefing to familiarize the newly arrived crew with potential hazards and available safety measures on board the ISS as well as learn about equipment required for initial emergency response. Some contingency items covered were response to depressurization, fire, and toxic release. The crew also practiced using the emergency egress route and inspected the hatches for obstructions.

