
Payloads:
ESA-Education Payload Operations (EPO): Video was recorded in support of the EPO Mogensen – Astronaut Logbook & Humans in Space Exhibition Day 3: How I View Earth. The ISS Education Program makes use of human spaceflight and the ISS as a means to capture the attention and the interest of students, to attract them to study, in particular, scientific, and technical disciplines, and to appreciate and understand the benefits, challenges, importance of space for Europe, and as a member of a global economy.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham Pass was initiated with 149 Secondary School in Baku, Azerbaijan and Technological University Dublin in Dublin, Ireland. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Lumina: The Lumina experiment setup and data transfer was performed via the EveryWear application. Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray photons, X-ray photons, or neutrons.
Systems:
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs in October. They completed a Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkout activity, an EVA Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review, had an EVA Procedure Conference, performed an EVA Procedure Review, and completed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) On-board Training (OBT) Session. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and Radio Frequency Groups (RFG) retrieval EVAs scheduled for later this month.
Camera Light Assembly (CLA) Remove and Replace (R&R): The team completed the CLA R&R to replace the old CLA on the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE) B using the Mobile Servicing Station (MSS). Though the old CLA was still operational, the new system will provide numerous upgrades to quality and will provide the team with more precise video for robotic operations.
ZBook Laptop Shell Swap: The crew swapped the failed JEM Portable Computer System (PCS) Shell with an on-board spare and reconfigured it for use. This was in response to issues found weeks ago when attempting to nominally boot the Airlock PCS. This PCS was swapped with the old JEM PCS and the malfunctioning unit had remained in the JEM prior to the R&R.
