
Lighting Effects: A Crewmember provided a sleep log entry upon waking. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
JAXA Low Temperature Protein Crystal Growth (LT PCG): Low Temp Protein Crystal Growth samples were prepared and inserted into the Glacier facility. The goal of the JAXA LT PCG experiment is to produce high quality protein crystals in a microgravity environment at a low temperature.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD): The J-SSOD #10 launch hardware was removed from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform in preparation of the Loop Heat Pipe Radiator installation. J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability from the ISS.
Demonstration of Loop Heat Pipe Radiator (LHPR) System: The Crew installed the LHPR System and the External Ethernet Extender onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform inside the JEM Airlock for future deployment. LHPR is an advanced two-phase heat transfer device that utilizes the evaporation and condensation of a working fluid to transfer heat, and the capillary force to circulate the fluid. This investigation demonstrates the heat transfer performance/functions under microgravity conditions using the LHPR experimental apparatus, which is grappled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS). This technology can be applied in the thermal control system of future satellites that generate large amounts of heat that could negatively affect satellite operations.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): The Crew checked the camera alignment and focus by viewing the latest BCAT images on a laptop. BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles. Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics: Crew reconfigured the FIR LMM Biophysics facility and installed the Biophysics Plate 2 into the LMM Petri Base Auxiliary Fluids Container. Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work. Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. The Effect of Macromolecular Transport on Microgravity Protein Crystallization (LMM Biophysics 4) studies why this is the case, examining the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity.
Human Resources Facility (HRF) 1: Crew unstowed a Z-Book to be used as HRF Portable Computer 1 and connected it Express Rack 3. The new Z-book laptops will be used for upcoming NeuroMapping sessions. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Basic Express Rack 10 (ER-10B): Express Rack 10B was activated by the ISS Crew for the first time today. The new rack arrived on HTV-7 and was previously installed by the Crew. Today’s activities included initiating the Manual Flow Control Valve that will affect the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL)flow into the Rack. In addition, they worked with the ground teams and successfully performed the initial activation and checkout of the rack. EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station (EXPRESS) Racks are multipurpose payload rack systems that store and support research aboard the ISS. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
VHF-1 Emergency Comm Checks: The Crew configured USOS and ROS Audio Subsystems to support successful VHF-1 comm checks with Houston, Huntsville, Tsukuba, and Moscow via the Wallops Flight Facility. VHF-1 provides an emergency back up for ISS to ground communications and is verified using each of the three U.S. ground sites at least once per year.

