
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #2 (USOS EVA#57) Preparations: Today, the ISS crew was involved with several different preparation activities for the upcoming EVA on Friday, October 11.  The crew completed the EVA tool configuration activity.  In addition, the crew completed recharging the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) feedwater tanks with iodinated water from a Contingency Water Container (CWC).  Further preparations included completing EVA related Robotics Onboard Training (OBT) and procedure reviews.
HTV8 Cargo Operations and Transfers:  Today, the crew completed additional HTV8 cargo transfers from the HTV8 vehicle to the ISS.
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization Onboard Training (OBT): The crew completed the Emergency Hardware OBT which is designed to familiarize the crew with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies as well as practice communication from the Russian Segment (RS) modules in case of emergency.
Payloads:    
Astrobee: The crew performed Astrobee battery charging for eight batteries. Astrobee is a series of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew-monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor: The crew performed a cabin air sample in support of the Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitoring study. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor investigation demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph mass spectrometer instrument aboard the International Space Station (ISS) to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement. The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew setup the cables and hardware for the upcoming Cerebral Autoregulation Data measurement. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space.
Veg-04B: The crew added water to the small plant pillows and took photos of each pillow. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-0404A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space. 

