ISS On-Orbit Status 10/07/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk, FE-5 De Winne &amp; FE-5-21 Williams continued their week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Jeff’s first, logging data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Also just after wakeup, Barratt, Stott, Thirsk, De Winne &amp; Williams performed their third liquid saliva collection of the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE, storing the samples at ambient temperature.     [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]
 
 Nicole did Day 2 of her second ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session.  Upon reaching the midpoint, the FE-2 ended the Cardiopres/BP (blood pressure) data collection, changed out the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF Card and AA Battery, and began the next 24-hour data collection, today using the CEVIS to meet the ICV heart rate requirement.      [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices were worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres was doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 FE-1-21 Maxim Suraev had his first session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.    [FE-3 Romanenko assisted in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes, applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit and taking photographs.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
 Later in the day, Suraev also conducted his first data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.    [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
 CDR Padalka also completed a session of the MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie program, his twelfth.
 
 Later Gennady made preparations for a microbial air sampling session scheduled tomorrow with the MedOps SZM-MO-21 ECOSFERA equipment, initiating charging on the Ecosphere power pack (BP) and readying the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container for the samples.    [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger, power supply unit, and incubation tray for Petri dishes, determines microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]
 
 Padalka &amp; Suraev conducted the periodic health check of the KhSA Cooler/Dehumidifier Assembly’s V1 fan in the Soyuz 18S spacecraft’s SA (Descent Module) by turning the V2 fan on and the V1 fan off, then checking air flow.     [On 6/25, a planned replacement of the apparently faulty fan in the Soyuz 18S DM with a new unit proved to be not necessary after Padalka configured a jumper bypass which successfully recovered functionality of the air conditioner fan.  Today’s activity was to check up on the fix.] 
 
 Romanenko downloaded data files from the BU (Control Unit) of the running BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM for archiving on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked pictures of the experiment setup.   [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.] 
 
 Early after wakeup, Barratt set up the CDM (Carbon Dioxide Monitor) for a day-long data take.    [The CDM was to be attached as close to Mike’s breathing zone as possible to measure CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations throughout his work day. The CDM internal clock (both RT and LT values) and Station GMT (Greenwich Mean Time) had to be called down to MCC-Houston in order to correlate the timestamps on the CDM download data.]
 
 Cleaning up after his two-day session with the ESA cardiological experiment CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease), Mike Barratt dismantled and stowed the PFS (Pulmonary Function System) equipment.
 
 Continuing his work in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) on the FPEF MS (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility/Marangoni Surface) hardware, FE-4 Bob Thirsk connected cables between MS and FPEF, then aborted further installation activities to clean up the hardware.    [The insertion of the cassette into the MS Core yesterday could not be completed nominally, probably because of excessive leakage of silicon oil, necessitating today’s clean-up until a forward plan can be developed by the payload support team.  Background:  In microgravity, fluids react differently to stresses when compared to the same stresses on Earth.  Understanding the responses to the stressors allows for improved fluid flow models to be designed.  Mass transfer on or in a liquid due to surface tension differences is called the Marangoni Effect (which, for example, stabilizes a soap film).  The Marangoni convection experiment in the FPEF examines fluid tension flow in micro-G:  first, a liquid bridge of silicone oil is formed into a pair of disks.  Then, using temperature differences imposed on the disks, convection is induced causing the silicone oil to move and transition through different types of flows because of its fluid instability: successively from laminar to oscillatory, chaos, and turbulence flows as the driving force increases.  The flow and temperature fields are observed in each stage and the transition conditions and processes are investigated.]
 
 For the subsequent MSRR outfitting work by Jeff &amp; Nicole, Williams temporarily moved the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization) out of the way by disconnecting its frame and isolators from the rack.  Williams later re-installed and re-connected it.
 
 Nicole &amp; Jeff continued their major installation &amp; reconfiguring of the new MSRR1 (Materials Science Research Rack 1), today intent on outfitting the rack with its sophisticated ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) hardware and mating the umbilical.  However, when an actuator failed, the ARIS installation had to be aborted and put on hold, pending development of a forward plan (the umbilical was installed OK).  MSRR is not planned to be utilized for the next several months.     [The ESA/NASA MSRR-1 will provide a powerful multi-user MSL (Materials Science Laboratory) with diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in micro-G to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.  MSRR experiments will be coordinated by international teams that share different parts of the samples.  There are 25 investigators on three research teams participating in the first of these investigations.  Background: Designed to attenuate external vibration disturbances of payload racks, ARIS is quite different from traditional shock absorbers by working with active feedback control.  This is done with accelerometers to measure vibration disturbances, an electronic unit to process the data, eight actuators with pushrods for applying compensatory (counteracting) forces against the framework of the station in response to signals from the *electronic unit that are calculated to "counteract" the disturbances measured by the accelerometers, and microgravity rack barriers (“snubbers”) that prevent accidental disturbance of the active ARIS rack.  Before regular operation, ARIS is being checked out and calibrated this week by the ground in order to fine-tune the multiple-component system.]
 
 As a handover activity, Romanenko worked with Suraev on the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> removal system’s spare emergency vacuum valves (AVK), in the spare parts kit.    [The AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO<sub>2</sub> during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP).]
 
 FE-4 Thirsk was on schedule for another session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), his 6<sup>th</sup>, logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and performing the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.     [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
 FE-5 De Winne updated the onboard EMER-2 emergency procedures books, printing three pages found missing in the 17A-delivered books, then incorporating them in the books.
 
 Installation of the new T2 treadmill COLBERT was successfully completed after Mike, Nicole &amp; Frank wrapped up the work on their free time last week.  De Winne today performed final cleanup activities in Node-2.  T2 ACO (activation &amp; checkout) is scheduled to begin next week.     [Frank was asked to verify that the T2 dynamic envelope is clear, that side closeout panels do not interfere with tread belt operation, and that all snubber pins of the VIS (Vibration Isolation System) are centered within the snubber cups.]
 
 The FE-1 completed the periodic status &amp; screen check on the running payload CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus), located in the ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2).
 
 Barratt also performed the second status check (of 4) on the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, looking for any internal condensation moisture which would require replacing desiccants.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.  Four weekly status checks are scheduled for the crew to determine when desiccant replacement is necessary.  It has been 95 days since the last desiccant change and over 428 door openings.]
 
 In the US A/L (Airlock), FE-1 terminated discharge of EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) batteries set up yesterday in the A/L BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly), and initiated the process on the third battery set, using BC4 (Battery Charger 4) for maintenance requirements and stowage.
 
 Roman Romanenko collected and downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has ten sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard &amp; port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, etc.).  Today’s readings were taken from all ten dosimeters, and dose data were logged and reported to TsUP-Moscow.
 
 Working with Suraev, Romanenko also gathered the periodic water samples in the RS (Russian Segment) from the SM SVO-ZV Water Supply System, while Padalka collected a sample from the EDV containing water from the European ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle).  All samples were stored in Russian drink bags for return on TMA-14
 
 Afterwards, Roman &amp; Maxim floated over to the newly arrived Soyuz TMA-16/20S and dismantled the two "Klest" (KL-152) TV cameras and their light units in the Descent Module for return to the ground on 18S for reuse, temporarily stowing them in the SM.
 
 Jeff Williams performed the now regular transfer of pre-treated Russian urine directly from EDV-U container into the Lab UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) for processing, done each morning for about 5 minutes.
 
 Max Suraev did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 The FE-10-21 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 At ~5:20pm, just before sleep time, the FE-3 will set up the Russian MBI-12 SONOKARD payload and start his ninth experiment session, using a sports shirt from the SONOKARD kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 SFP Guy Laliberté and the three Russian crewmembers had another several hours set aside for scheduled commemorative (Russian: “symbolic”) activities, a standard tradition for visiting guests and departing expedition crewmembers.   [The crew members spent most of the time with stamping &amp; signing photographs, letter envelopes (including 50 for the 50<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of Luna-2) and postcards, recording greetings before an unstowed a Youth Year flag, unpacking an Icon of The Mother of God (“The Sign Icon”) for video &amp; still photography, then signing &amp; stamping the flag with the ISS logo and current date, and finally stowing the kits in the Soyuz TMA-14 SA.]
 
 Jeff, Max, Bob &amp; Frank also spent about half an hour with Laliberté, interacting with each other in an agreed-upon downlink video shoot.
 
 At ~3:30pm EDT, Mike, Frank &amp; Jeff tagged up with ground engineers to discuss the issue of the “underdispensing” PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).
 
 At ~11:55am, Barratt, Stott, De Winne, Thirsk &amp; Williams participated in two PAO TV interviews, one with Fox News Radio (Eben Brown), the other with the St. Petersburg Times (Curtis Krueger).
 
 FE-2, FE-1-21 &amp; FE-5-21 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Max at ~9:20am, Jeff at ~1:20pm, Nicole at ~1:45pm EDT.
 
 At ~3:50pm, Nicole was scheduled for her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 Max Suraev had ~15 min set aside for familiarization with the hardware and protocol of the CEVIS cycle ergometer.  His first physical workout today was on the Russian VELO.
 
 Jeff Williams took his first exercise workout on the CEVIS.
 
 The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-5-21), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (F-3, F-1-21).
 
 Later, Barratt transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 Before his TVIS session, Bob Thirsk instrumented his treadmill harness with data collection transducers in support of an SDTO (Station Development Test Objective), then activated the hardware for the exercise run.  Afterwards, Thirsk downloaded the harness data and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO. 
 
 Soyuz TMA-14/18S Descent Training:   Padalka, Barratt &amp; SFP Laliberté spent three hours in the TMA-14 Descent Module (SA) to conduct the Soyuz descent drill, a standard training exercise for every crew returning on a Soyuz.  The exercise, which strictly forbids any command activation (except for switching the InPU display), was supported by a tagup and discussions with ground instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band.     [The session includes a review of the pertinent ODFs (operational data files), specifically the books on Soyuz Ascent &amp; Descent Procedures, Emergency Descents, and Off-Nominal Situations, crew responsibilities when executing the flight program, visual crew recognition of SUS (Entry Control System) failures, spacesuit procedures, etc., with special emphasis on operations with the Neptune-ME cockpit console.  The training uses a Descent Simulator application on the RSK1 laptop.  During the actual descent, Padalka, as Soyuz CDR, will occupy the middle couch, with Laliberté in the right seat and Barratt in the Descent Module’s left Kazbek couch.  Pending the final State Commission decision at about 3.5h before undocking, 18S return is now expected for 10/11 (next Sunday) at 12:32am EDT (10:32am local) in Kazakhstan.]
 
 Soyuz TMA-14/18S MCS Test:   Early in the morning, CDR Padalka &amp; FE-1 Barratt worked in the Soyuz TMA-14/18S for the scheduled testing of the spacecraft’s SUDN MCS (Motion Control System) procedures at 4:49am -5:15am EDT, but they ran into an anomaly when posigrade (forward-pushing) KDU thrusters did not fire when commanded.  Normally these thrusters are not used for the retrograde burns required for the undocking, but Moscow has scheduled a second MCS test tomorrow.    [The anomaly is not seen as a major problem and is not expected to affect the Soyuz undocking on 10/10 since it does not interfere with the spacecraft’s ability to undock and reenter the atmosphere.  If tomorrow’s test results are the same, TsUP-Moscow will make procedural changes.]
 
 Soyuz TMA-14/18S ppCO<sub>2</sub> Analyzer:   Moscow also reported the failure of the ppCO<sub>2</sub> (Carbon Dioxide Partial Pressure) analyzer in 18S, requiring Padalka to install an unused LiOH absorber cartridge in the Descent Module and staying an additional hour in the spacecraft to verify its correct operation.    [If successful, this will certify this cartridge for use in nominal Soyuz descents.]
 
 Red Nose in Orbit:   Guy and Cirque du Soleil are planning a 2-hour live broadcast with the crew on Friday, 10/9.  It will string together live broadcasts from sites around the world.  NASA and Cirque du Soleil have signed a unique MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) for this Soyuz visiting crew.  NASA will participate in this broadcast event, supporting video recording on orbit, and helping get the NASA messages about ISS and Exploration integrated into the event and the attendant publicity.  It may possibly be picked up by broadcast TV.  Information about the webcast is available through this link:
 <a href="http://www.spaceadventures.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=news.viewnews&amp;newsid=729">http://www.spaceadventures.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=news.viewnews&amp;newsid=729</a>
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Bigach Impact Crater, Kazakhstan (looking slightly left of nadir over this 8 km in diameter impact structure located the west of Lake Zhaysang.  The crater is visible on the landscape as a rough ring of disturbed rock surrounding an almost flat interior.  Overlapping frames taken along track were requested), and Mount St. Helens, WA (weather should hold out for a nice pass over Mt. St. Helens.  CEO observers have cataloged crew CEO imagery from last May [with snow!] and would like to continue with seasonal imagery of this volcano.  Mt. St. Helens is distinctive because of the breach of the north side of the crater that formed during the May 1980 eruption.  The creation of a national monument at the site has given scientists the chance to document and study how forests regenerate from such a regional catastrophic event).
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a> (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 
