
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo:  Kelly and Yui set up and performed a SPHERES Vertigo run today.  This investigation uses the SPHERES free-flying satellites to demonstrate and test enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct 3 Dimensional (3D) models of a target object and then perform relative navigation solely by reference to those 3D models.
 
MAGVECTOR:  The sixth run of the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) MAGVECTOR experiment started today.  MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the ram and wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research.
 
Large Format Motion Picture Camera (IMAX): Kelly connected the IMAX Codex to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for a downlink of recorded video files.  IMAX filmmakers intend to produce a three dimensional movie called A Perfect Planet, using ISS-based video and images to show how natural and human forces shape planet Earth. The film will also showcase NASA’s exploration efforts and highlight the ISS as a platform for scientific research and a stepping stone to deep space exploration.
 
Journals: Kelly performed a Journals activity today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly and Kornienko continued a week-long set of Sleep Log entries by making daily entries.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Space Headaches: Yui and Lindgren answered their weekly Space Headaches questionnaires today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #6 Operations:  Overnight, additional troubleshooting was performed to attempt to launch the cubesats.  The latches were cycled during a Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Emergency Stop (E-stop) test to jolt the deployer.  Attempts to release satellites in Deployer #6 using JEMRMS motion were not successful.  Teams are discussing the forward plan.
 
Node 1 Nadir Power Connections Part 2:  As part of USOS Reconfiguration, Lindgren and Yui changed out bulkhead feedthrough connectors in the Lab to Node 1 vestibule, then mated pre-routed jumper cables to the ISS 1 and 4 power domains.  These cables will provide power to Node 1 Nadir Berthing Port and Galley Rack.   During this activity, Lindgren was unable to mate two connectors due to interference caused by incorrect clocking of a connector’s back-shell.  A jumper was installed to provide interim power to airlock shell heaters. Engineering teams are meeting to determine a forward plan and any impacts to Saturday’s planned leak check of the Lab/Node 1 vestibule.
 

