
J-SSOD-10: The crew performed part 1 of 2 of the JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) installation onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP).  This is being performed in preparation for the J-SSOD-10 deploys this Saturday, GMT 279.  The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once the J-SSOD is installed on the MPEP by crewmembers, it is passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning and deployment by the JEMRMS. 
Functional Immune: The crew performed saliva collections as part of the Functional Immune experiment.  Functional Immune analyzes blood and saliva samples to determine the changes taking place in crewmembers’ immune systems during flight. The changes in the immune system are also compared with crewmembers’ self-reported health information. Results are expected to provide new insight into the possible health risks of long-duration space travel, including future missions to Mars, asteroids, or other distant destinations.
Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST): Today the crew replaced the failed FROST2 controller with new hardware that arrived on HTV-7. FROST is a Stirling cooler that is able to maintain temperatures under -70ºC.  FROST2 will be used to support JAXA’s Low Temperature Protein Crystallization Growth (LT-PCG) investigation.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): Shutdown and stow of mission 63 was completed today.  As of the final report, 28,438 students from 34 countries had signed up to request images and more than 8,000 images had been downlinked.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 Radio Troubleshooting: Last Friday, EMU 3003 experienced an unexpected loss of EMU data while on the primary (PRI) radio.  Today the crew configured the Ultra High Frequency (UHF)-2 radio for EVA communication and performed audio checks on EMU 3003 in conjunction with an ullage dump; while initial comm checks were nominal, and the ground received nominal data from the suit, they did not receive EDAR data as expected. After switching back and forth between alternate (ALT) and PRI radios, ground teams were able to isolate part of last week’s failure signature to a data timeout when switching between radios. At this time, however, experts remain unable to explain why data was initially lost during last week’s activity. Additional meetings are scheduled to discuss the results of today’s troubleshooting and the forward plan.
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Nitrogen (N2) Transfer Terminate: The crew reconfigured the ISS N2 system and terminated the N2 transfer from the NORS tank to the High Pressure Gas Tank. The crew then removed the empty NORS tank and stowed it in preparation for return on a future flight.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Rack Transfers: The crew completed all but one of the HTV-7 rack transfers today. Tomorrow, the crew will perform the final rack transfer and the post rack-transfer hatch seal inspections. The list of rack transfers completed today is as follows:

Life Science Glovebox (LSG) hardware temporarily installed into JPM1F5
Express Rack 9B transferred from HTV-7 to COL1F2
RSR transferred from JPM1A5 to HTV-7
Express Rack 10B transferred from HTV-7 to JPM1A5
RSR transferred from LAB1P1 to HTV-7
Life Support Rack (LSR) transferred from HTV-7 to LAB1P1

Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations: Friday night, the Robotics Ground Controllers extracted the External Platform (EP) from HTV-7 and installed it on the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload/Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA).  Next, they walked SSRMS off from Node2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF4. When performing the base change, data was collected to capture the rigidization tension on both Latching End Effectors (LEEs). They then unstowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from the Lab PDGF, completing initial operations to configure the MSS for the HTV-7 Battery Remove & Replace operations scheduled in mid-October. Tonight, Robotics Ground Controllers will be performing a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation to Worksite (WS)7.

