
Life Support Rack (LSR): The crew reviewed the LSR big picture words in preparation for the upcoming installation. Once the installation and checkout are complete, LSR will be capable of providing oxygen generation, carbon dioxide removal, and water generation. Life Support Rack (LSR) is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR technologies were selected for integration into a single system, not requiring buffer tanks or compressors. It is intended to operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions and is sized to support a crew of three.
Lighting Effects:  The crew performed the Lighting Effects sleep logging activity. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Fine Leak Checks and Pressure Management Device (PMD):  Fine leak checks were successfully performed for the Node1/Lab and Node2/Lab vestibules today. The Crew was isolated aft of the Lab for approximately 6 hours while Lab hatches were closed. PMD was utilized successfully in support of the Node2/Lab portion of the leak checks. PMD helps conserve ISS resources and Crew time for depressurizing and pressurizing vestibule operations. 
Treadmill (T2) Accelerometer R&R:  Today, the crew successfully replaced the Accelerometer within T2. In addition, they took advantage of the access and greased the forward right axle today. Once the replacement was complete, the crew and ground successfully performed a checkout of T2. The Accelerometer had been failed since April 12, 2018. Ground teams utilize accelerometer data to characterize the health of the T2 Vibration Isolation System (VIS). 

