
Payloads
ISS HAM: The crew initiated a contact with McConnell Middle School, Loganville, GA.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Polar: Frozen samples from ISS POLAR’s 3 and 8 and NG-14’s POLAR 6 were transferred to MELFI cold stowage. Polar is a cold stowage managed facility that provides transport and storage of science samples at cryogenic temperatures (-80ºC) to and from the ISS.
Spectrum: The crew retrieved the Spectrum science kit 001 kit from cold stowage and installed it into the Spectrum Facility. Spectrum takes fluorescent images of biological specimens contained within a controlled environment. A high resolution, monochrome camera captures images of fluoresced proteins of plants within Petri plates. Ground crews control the growth lighting, CO2 levels, and ethylene levels within the Spectrum’s research chamber over a typical 12-day growth period while routinely capturing images and telemetering these images back to Earth.
Robo-Pro Challenge: The crew reviewed procedures for the upcoming ROBO-Pro Challenge. Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS). This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
Avatar-X: The crew performed the installation and camera view checkout of the AVATAR-X hardware. JEM Commercial (Avatar-X, or Kibo Avatar-X) demonstrates remote robot technology, Avatar-X, a 4K Camera, a new encoding method developed by ANA HOLDINGS INC. (All Nippon Airways). A user on Earth remotely controls a camera, installed near the window of the Japanese Experiment Module, to see the view from space.
Bacterial Genome Fitness: The crew used the BioServe’s Fluid Processing Apparatus (FPA) to activate groups of eight samples by hand cranking the mixtures in the Group Activation Packs (GAP), then placed the GAPS into the Space Automated Bio-product Laboratory (SABL) for incubation. Scientists know what happens to plants and animals in microgravity, but understand very little about how bacteria are affected. Most previous research used ground-based techniques to simulate microgravity and looked at only one or two specific bacterial processes. Whole Genome Fitness of Bacteria Under Microgravity (Bacterial Genome Fitness) grows multiple types of bacteria in space and comprehensively examines what processes are important to their growth.
Systems
ISS Deboost: Early this morning, the ISS successfully performed a deboost using the SM Aft 75 Progress (75P) thrusters.  This was the final of three planned burns to set up phasing conditions for the arrival of the 63 Soyuz (63S) vehicle on October 14 and the 62S landing on October 21.  The burn was originally planned to occur in the posigrade direction, but was switched to retrograde following a Predetermined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) on September 23

