ISS On-Orbit Status 10/08/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Saturday – Crew off duty.
  
FE-4 Volkov performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
CDR Fossum serviced the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) experiment, checking camera operations during the day and changing the camera battery in the morning and before sleeptime (change required after 8 hrs).       [The current experiment session is with Harvard University mixed and homogenized sample no. 5 which requires an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop with EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) timing software, power cables and camera USB cable.  Illumination is provided by Mini-MagLite and Flash, and the camera needs freshly charged battery every 8 hrs for its automated photography, triggered by the EarthKAM software.  This requires camera battery changes twice a day and image check with a battery change once per day.  In micro-G, the mixed (alloyed) colloid sample will develop over time an increasingly coarse structure of its colloid particles which are like tiny spheres evenly dispersed in a fluid, gas or solid to help stabilize the mixture.  Over time, these colloids can move around -- known as “coarsening” -- causing changes in the concentrations and properties of the substance.  On Earth, gravity complicates this research by causing heavy components to sink and lighter ones to float.  In space, however, these forces are minute, revealing the natural movement of the colloids. The on-orbit samples' aging process works more slowly and evenly, making it easier to study.  BCAT-5 was started by Mike on 9/21 with phase separation sample no. 4.]
 
Volkov completed the daily inspection of the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, verifying enough water supply in the KDV and proper humidity of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules.        [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
Fossum, Volkov &amp; Furukawa joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).        ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of the Uborka house cleaning, Sergey completed regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM, with documentary photography, and the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on its total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.
 
Working a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) task for the JAXA EPO (Educational Payload Operations) program, Satoshi Furukawa prepared Reports Nr. 12 &amp; Nr. 13, i.e., written short reports showing ordinary life in space which, as is expected, will attract children and the general public's attention for future human space exploration.       [JAXA EPO Report 12, for THE MAINICHI papers (06), for, has as topic "Conversations through e-mails with the popular Japanese popular comedian Kanpei Hazama", while Report 13, for THE NIKKEI (07) newspapers, has "For the Return to Earth" as topic.]
 
The CDR meanwhile reviewed procedures for his VolSci task for the US EPO program and set up camcorder &amp; props for live standard definition video of the “Eye in the Sky 2” EPO demo.  Mike and Satoshi then discussed the many phenomena uniquely observable from the ISS with realtime downlink (to enable realtime feedback from EPO personnel on framing, location &amp; props/material in the first 10 min).
 
As a second VolSci task, Furukawa recorded one of the uses of the Japanese medical diagnostic payload DK (Diagnostic Kit), demonstrating manual analysis of Biorhythm data.
 
Afterwards, FE-5 set up for another session with the JAXA SSHDTV (Super Sensitive High-Definition Television) camera from the Cupola in Node-3, today again installing the single-focus 8 mm lens with IR (Infrared) cut filter 3 and exchanging its 32GB memory storage card for a new one.  Satoshi then started the video recording of the Giacobinid meteor shower, returning to the Cupola periodically when the “falling stars” came into sight, to add his audio narration.  Before sleeptime, Satoshi will replace the 32GB card with a new one for overnight Giacobinid coverage.


Sergey completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.        [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Mike Fossum worked briefly on the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment), reconfiguring the toilet system for feeding the internal EDV-U urine container instead of backfill and UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) processing, and reported the flush counter.
 
Mike also filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).         [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
At ~8:15am EDT, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~12:45pm, the CDR powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 12:50pm conducted a ham radio session with students at the George Observatory in Needville, Texas.
 
Tasks listed for Sergei Volkov on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Continuing the preparation &amp; downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Another ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for the mountain peaks of the Andes and Patagonia ice fields, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).
 
Soyuz 26S Update:    According to RSC Energia/Moscow specialists, the recent Soyuz 26S descent communication issue is believed to have been due to a poor quality link between ISS and Soyuz or blockage. This issue is considered closed.
 

