ISS On-Orbit Status 10/07/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – Crew off duty.  SpaceX-1 Dragon Launch Day.  Ahead: Week 15 of Increment 33 (three-person crew).
 
After wakeup, FE-4 Malenchenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
Yuri also completed the periodic (daily) reboot of the Russian RS1,2 &amp; RSS1,2 laptops.
 
FE-6 Hoshide continued his current extended session of the ESA ENERGY experiment.      [Activities included terminating the PFS (Pulmonary Function System) part of the experiment with disassembly of the PFM/PAM (Pulmonary Function Module/Photoacoustic Analyzer Module), GDS (Gas Delivery System), and MBS (Mixing Bag System), and stowage of the majority of the PFS hardware.  Collection of a water sample from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) in the Lab and urine sampling (on 2<sup>nd</sup> void of the day) are continuing, as is adherence to the special ENERGY breakfast plus logging all ISS food &amp; drinks consumed during ENERGY experiment performance from lunch and dinner on Day 1 until breakfast on Day 10.  Akihiko wears an armband monitor, positioned on the right triceps where it started automatically on skin contact. The instrument must be worn for the entire 10-day ENERGY measurement period and removed only during showers or if needed during blood draws.  Activities without the armband monitor on the triceps must be carefully logged.   The monitor will be removed at the end of the 10-day period, then data will be downloaded from the device.   Background:  The observed loss of astronauts’ body mass during space flight is partly due to the systematic ongoing negative energy balance in micro-G, in addition to disuse. Unfortunately, the reason for such unbalanced match between intake and output is not clear, but appealing data suggest a relation between the degree of energy deficit and the exercise level prescribed as a countermeasure. In the ENERGY experiment, astronauts are invited to participate in a study that aimed to evaluate how much food is needed for astronauts during long-term space missions.  To do so, the science team will measure every component or variable of the astronaut's energy expenditure reflecting his energy needs.  Those variables will be measured twice: up to 4 months before flight and after at least 3 months in space but 3 weeks before landing.  The changes in the astronaut's energy balance and expenditure will be measured, which will help in deriving an equation for energy requirements in weightlessness.  This will contribute to planning adequate, but not excessive cargo supplies for food. Purpose of the ENERGY experiment is (1) to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight, (2) to measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure TEE (consumption), and (3) to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.  TEE is the sum of resting metabolic rate (RMR, measured), diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT, measured oxygen-uptake minus RMR) and activity-related energy expenditure (AEE, calculated).]
 
Afterwards, Aki performed his part of “uborka” house cleaning deferred from yesterday because of the ENERGY setup activities.
 
Yuri completed the routine daily &amp; weekly servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM and FGB.     [This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings of SM &amp; FGB for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for calldown.  SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers as required.]
 
The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [CDR &amp; FE-6 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Suni on Friday, for Aki on Thursday.  If any day is not completed, Suni &amp; Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day. Suni’s protocol for today showed ARED/T2 (cont., Kine.), with T2 (int., 30 sec.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.), T2 (int., 4 min.) and ARED/CEVIS (cont.) for the next 4 days.  Aki’s protocol for today showed ARED/CEVIS (cont.), with T2 (int., 4 min.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.), T2 (cont.) and ARED (cont.) on the following 4 days.]
 
Sunita Williams conducted today’s SPRINT session on the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill with the Treadmill Kinematics protocol, Suni’s 4<sup>rd</sup> time, setting up the HD camcorder in Node-1, placing tape markers on her body, recording a calibration card in the FOV (Field of View) and then conducting the workout run within a specified speed range.      [Purpose of the Kinematics T2 experiment is to collect quantitative data by motion capture from which to assess current exercise prescriptions for participating ISS crewmembers.  Detailed biomechanical analyses of locomotion will be used to determine if biomechanics differ between normal and microgravity environments and to determine how combinations of external loads and exercise speed influence joint loading during in-flight treadmill exercise.  Such biomechanical analyses will aid in understanding potential differences in gait motion and allow for model-based determination of joint &amp; muscle forces during exercise. The data will be used to characterize differences in specific bone and muscle loading during locomotion in the two gravitational conditions.  By understanding these mechanisms, appropriate exercise prescriptions can be developed that address deficiencies.]
 
CDR, FE-4 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Aki at ~5:30am, Yuri at ~10:40am, Suni at ~1:40-m EDT.
 
As a voluntary activity on the Russian discretionary task list, the three crewmembers joined for recording a Russian PAO TV downlink, extending their greetings &amp; congratulations to the participants of the 20<sup>th</sup> International Space Olympiad for School Children.      [The 12<sup>th</sup> annual International Space Olympiad for Schoolchildren, dedicated to the 55<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of the first Earth man-made satellite launch, will take place from 10/17-10/27 in Korolyov. The participants of Olympiad are schoolchildren from Korolyov and Moscow Region, and also their mates from the Great Britain, Greece, Germany, Israel, Spain, USA, and Sweden.]
 
At ~1:05pm, Suni activated the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) routing to downlink the recording of her latest Treadmill Kinematics session, stopping it at ~3:30pm.       [POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) routed the on-board HRDL (High-Rate Data Line) system.]
 
At ~7:00am, CDR Williams powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 1:20pm conducted a ham radio session with students at S.K Taman Tun Dr. Ismail 1, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
 
 
Tasks listed for FE-4 Malenchenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), </li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining SKPF-U (Photo Image Coordinate Reference System) HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of color bloom patterns in the waters of South-Eastern Pacific (SEPO), then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,</li></ul><ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo2">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Kerguelen Islands, Indian Ocean (there were probably scattered clouds over Kerguelen as it is seldom cloud-free.  Only partial clearing was expected by the time of ISS’ midday pass. This glaciated and volcanic archipelago is located in the far south Indian Ocean nearly 2,000 miles southeast of the island of Madagascar. Of greatest interest is imagery for monitoring of the rarely photographed ice field and glaciers located on the western end of the main island. Cook Glacier and its ice field is your prime feature. With an area of ~403 km2, it is quoted as "France's largest glacier," since the islands are a French possession. At this time as ISS approached from the west, the crew was to look just left of track for detailed mapping views of this feature), King George's Sound, WA-AUS (HMS BEAGLE Site:  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass in fair weather for this target with its approach from the SW. In February 1836 Darwin landed here, but the stop seems to have been unimportant for his natural history studies. Darwin hosted a great dance for the local aboriginal people. At this time as ISS crossed the coast, the crew was to look just left of track for this major bay, recognizable by its highly convoluted coastline), Chiloe Island, S. Chile (HMS BEAGLE SITE:  ISS had an early morning pass with partly cloudy weather expected.  At this time, looking toward nadir for this large, rugged and forested island as ISS approached the southern coast of Chile from the NW, trying for context views of the island as a whole. Darwin and the Beagle arrived at this island on June 12, 1834, surveyed the west coast, gathered provisions and left the next day. Trying for either a single-frame view or a mapping set of this target), Mbabane, Swaziland (WORLD CAPITALS COLLECTION SITE:  ISS had a clear weather pass over this tiny target with approach from the SW in late afternoon with Mbabane just left of track. This small capital city has a population of approximately 95,000 and lies in a wooded highland of the tiny, land-locked nation of Swaziland. CEO has no images of this city in our database), SW. Glaciers-SPIF (on this pass ISS had partly cloudy conditions with the area of interest near nadir in mid-morning light. The crew may have found sufficient breaks in the cloud field for detailed views of these rarely-photographed glaciers near the southern end of this large ice field. As ISS approached the coast from the west, they were to look for these glaciers ending in long fjords), and NW. Glaciers-NPIF (ISS had an early afternoon pass today in partly cloudy weather with approach to this target area from the WSW. At this time the crew was to look just left of track and try for detailed views of the less-frequently photographed glaciers on the NW side of the Northern Patagonian Ice Field).
 


