
61 Progress (61P) Launch and Dock:   61P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome this morning at 11:49am CDT.  Once in orbit, the spacecraft performed a 4 orbit rendezvous with ISS and dock to the Service Module aft port at 5:52pm CDT.  61P is delivering over 1500 kgs of supplies to the ISS.
 
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer 6 (NRCSD#6) Installation:  Kelly opened the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock inner hatch, extended the slide table into the module, and installed the Cubesat Quad Deployers onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) on the slide table.  He was unable to install fasteners that attach the Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) to the deployer.  Ground teams are investigating and evaluating possible workarounds.  Kelly retracted the slide table back into the Airlock and closed the interior hatch.  The 16 cubesats in the deployers are scheduled for launches on Monday through Wednesday of next week, October 5th – October 7th.
 
Habitability: Kelly documented his recent observations related to human factors and habitability for the Habitability investigation.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max:  For his Flight Day 75 Sprint VO2 session, Yui attached to himself Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes, set up and donned Heart Rate Monitor (HRM) hardware, performed Portable PFS calibrations and an instrumentation check, and then performed the VO2 protocol.  The Sprint VO2 investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time during long-duration space flights.
 
Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF) Removal and Data Downlink:  Yui retrieved the temperature logger from the PCRF and downlinked the data via a Station Support Computer (SSC).  He also relocated the PCRF Maintenance Unit (PMU) for troubleshooting of the faulty PCRF Temperature Sensor #3.
 
Plant Gravity Sensing 2 (PGS2) Investigation:  Yui retrieved a Seed Paper Kit from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), prepared the Seed Papers for Culture Dishes and then returned the culture dishes to the MELFI.  Tomorrow the seeds will be inserted into the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to start the first of two runs for PGS2.  This investigation supports the study of cellular formation of the gravity sensors and the molecular mechanism for gravity sensing in plants grown in microgravity conditions.
 
Non-Propulsive Vent (NPV) O-Ring Installation:  Kelly inspected the Node 3 NPV sealing surface and installed new seals today. During an Extravehicular Activity (EVA) this past February, the NPV had been removed from Node 3 exterior in preparation for Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) relocation.  During the removal process, the original seals remained adhered to Node 3 exterior. The NPV will be re-installed onto Node 3 exterior during the ISS Upgrades EVA scheduled for late October.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the SSRMS to grapple and unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2).  Next they maneuvered the SPDM in order to perform a survey of the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS).  Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers configured the SSRMS and SPDM for the start of the Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Phase 2 Science Operations scheduled to begin tomorrow, October 2nd.
 

