
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirement for Long-Term Space Flight): Today, FE-5 completed Day 6 of the 11 day ENERGY experiment. As part of today’s activities, he continued logging his dietary intake and wearing the armband that monitors his activities.  The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Astronauts often lose body mass with extended stays in space for reasons that remain unclear, although increased exercise as a microgravity countermeasure may be a factor. Knowing details of astronaut metabolism and activity, combined with other conditions, will help ensure that crews are properly nourished on long missions. 
Wet Lab Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) SmartCycler: FE-6 conducted a test fill of COTS Smart Tubes to determine whether they could be filled in microgravity without the spilling out of fluids due to ricochet force. The Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler is a research platform for conducting real-time quantitative gene expression analysis aboard the ISS. The system enables spaceflight genomic studies involving a wide variety of biospecimen types in the unique microgravity environment of space.
Personal Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Monitor: FE-5 attached 4 Personal CO2 Monitors to various locations on his clothes, and then wore them for several hours. He then removed the monitors and downloaded data from them. The Personal CO2 Monitor demonstrates a new capability to continuously monitor the astronauts’ immediate surroundings on the ISS.  All human spacecraft must be designed with environmental control systems that remove CO2 from the air that their crews breathe, but the space environment can still lead to “pockets” of CO2 that are difficult to detect and remove. The Personal CO2 Monitor is a demonstration of a system capable of unobtrusively collecting and downlinking individual crew members’ CO2 exposure for up to months at a time.  The Personal CO2 Monitor also demonstrates use of the Modular Wearable Architecture Base Board, which will support rapid certification of wearable devices in the future.
Cygnus Offset Grapple On-Board Training (OBT):  In preparation for Cygnus arrival FE-5 and FE-6 practiced vehicle captures with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS), which had been positioned at the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) High Hover position in preparation for the training. Following the training, the crew participated in a conference with ground teams to discuss the training session and address any questions. 
47 Soyuz Survey:  FE-6 downlinked images, taken from the Cupola and Docking Compartment 1 (DC1), of the 47S descent module, currently docked at Mini Research Module-1 (MRM-1).  This is a routine survey performed prior to the Soyuz spacecraft departure from the ISS. 
Short Extravehicular Mobility Unit (SEMU) 3006 Checkout:  Earlier today FE-6 performed a checkout of SEMU 3006, this checkout is required when a new SEMU arrives onboard ISS prior to it being used for an EVA.  FE-6 performed a nominal leak check of SEMU 3006.  Due to a bad connection between the SEMU and the Space Station Computer (SSC) the data transmission portion of the checkout will need to be rescheduled. 
Node 3/Treadmill 2 (T2) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Line Inspection:  An inspection of the T2 MTL hoses in 2011 reveal minor damage to the hoses where they emerge from the standoff.  Earlier today FE-6 inspected and photographed the hoses to allow ground specialist to assess if there has been any significant change in the hoses status.   

