
Functional Immune: The crew performed saliva collection activities as part of the Functional Immune experiment. Functional Immune analyzes blood and saliva samples to determine the changes taking place in crewmembers’ immune systems during flight. The changes in the immune system are also compared with crewmembers’ self-reported health information. Results are expected to provide new insight into the possible health risks of long-duration space travel, including future missions to Mars, asteroids, or other distant destinations.
Mobile Procedure Viewer (MobiPV): The crew performed the hardware checkout today. Although some issues were encountered with the user interface and connectivity, progress was made. MobiPV is intended to allow users to view procedures hands-free and aims to improve the efficiency of activity execution by giving crewmembers a wireless set of wearable, portable devices that utilize voice navigation and a direct audio/video link to ground experts. A smartphone is the primary device to interface with procedures. Images provided in procedure steps can be displayed on a Google Glass display.
Plant Hab-01: The crew performed the science carrier-2 plant thinning. In this activity, the young Arabidopsis plants were thinned from 5-6 in each location, to 1 or 2 plants in each location. This gives the remaining plants a better chance to continue their growth. Understanding how plants respond to the space environment will help crews on future missions successfully grow plants for food and oxygen generation. The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between various Arabidopsis plant lines grown in space and on Earth. This investigation is expected to provide key insights on major changes occurring in plants exposed to microgravity.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Clean: The 54S USOS crewmembers cleaned their CQs in preparation for their departure this week. During this task, the crew cleaned the intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors. Velcro panel fasteners were installed on the Port CQ to replace the previous fasteners; the new Velcro panels will save crew time for future CQ cleanings.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Rack Transfer: Today the crew transferred the Resupply Stowage Rack from Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) to HTV. After the rack transfer was complete, the crew performed hatch seal inspections on the following locations:

PMM
Node 3 – Forward and Starboard
Node 1 – Port and Forward
Lab – Aft and Forward
Node 2 – Port, Starboard, Aft, and Nadir
Columbus
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) – Starboard
HTV


