
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Preparation for NanoRack Cubesat Deployer 6 (NRCSD#6) Cubesat Launches:  During yesterday’s preparation of the NRCSD, there was an issue installing the Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI). Yui implemented a workaround with an alternate set of fasteners to attach MLI to the deployer.  He then returned the slide table to the Airlock and depressed and vented the Airlock. The 16 cubesats in the deployers are scheduled for launches on Monday through Wednesday of next week, October 5th – October 7th.
 
Plant Gravity Sensing 2 (PGS2) Experiment Run 1:  Yui retrieved culture dishes containing seed papers from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), inserted them into Plant Experiment Units (PEUs), and attached the PEUs to the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to start a 10 day incubation period.  This investigation supports the study of cellular formation of gravity sensors and the molecular mechanism for gravity sensing in plants grown in microgravity conditions.  The research results may have implications for higher crop yield in farming and for cultivating plants for long-duration space missions.
 
Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) 2 Troubleshooting:  Lindgren performed troubleshooting for MELFI #2.  Preliminary results indicate a Rack Interface Unit (RIU) failure.  An onboard spare is available to replace the RIU next week.  On September 7th this unit stopped providing Health and Status updates and the temperature started to change, indicating a Brayton motor stop.
 
Reaction Self-Test:  Kelly and Kornienko performed sessions for the Reaction Self-Test investigation.  Reaction Self-Test helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
 
Space Headaches:  Yui and Lindgren answered their weekly Space Headaches questionnaires today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Maintenance:   The crew performed a series of maintenance items related to the WPA today.  Based on recent trending of the Total Organic Carbon (TOC) concentration in the WPA product water, the Multi-Filtration (MF) Beds were known to be at the end of their life, and therefore, were replaced.  Additionally, the Ion Exchange (IX) Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) was replaced due to the recent detection of Silica in a product water sample that was returned on SpaceX-6.  The presence of silica is evidence that this ORU had also reached the end of its life.  The team also took advantage of this maintenance opportunity by replacing a degraded Microbial Check Valve (MCV) ORU, however, following the replacement there was a flow issue with the new spare, so the degraded spare was re-installed.  Additionally, an External Filter Assembly (EFA) change out was performed due to trending that has shown an increase in loading on the Waste Water Filter.  It is anticipated that changing out the IX Bed in conjunction with the MF Beds will return the TOC to below minimum detectable limits.  The team is currently working on returning the WPA to operational following these activities.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:   In support of the ISS Upgrades EVA planned for October 28th, Lindgren built a Ballscrew Lubrication Tool (BLT) that will be used to lubricate the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE)-B.  He then filled both prime Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garments (LCVGs) with EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) feed water. Once the LCVGs were filled, the EMUs were left powered for an additional 10 minutes in order to dry out the EMU Fan Module.  Later in the day he also initiated a battery charge cycle for the Pistol Grip Tools (PGT), Helmet Lights, and two Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA) which will be used during the EVA.
 
Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurements:  Yui used the Velocicalc and a set of aids to measure the air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets throughout the USOS modules.  In addition to flow rate measurements, inspections were performed in select locations.  The results of this survey, which is performed every 120 days, are used to monitoring the health of the ISS IMV system and determine if any additional corrective actions are required.
 

