
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKam) Set Up: ISS CDR set up the Sally Ride EarthKam equipment in the Node 2 window which begins a week-long imaging session. The objective of Sally Ride EarthKam is to integrate Earth images with inquiry-based learning to enhance curricula in support of national and state education standards; to provide students and educators the opportunity to participate in a space mission and to develop teamwork, communication, and problem solving skills; to engage teams of students, educators, and researchers in collaborative investigations using remotely-sensed data; and to incorporate the active use of Web-based tools and resources in support of the learning process. 
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): FE-5 performed a weekly FMS session which involves the crew performing a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. The crewmember’s fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment. 
Water Monitoring Suite – Microbial Monitoring System (WMS-MMS): FE-6 performed two MMS runs today.  Both samples were obtained from the Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) water analysis sample bag and analysis was performed on ISS unfiltered water.  The first run utilized a low DNA concentration pouch, the second a high DNA concentration pouch. The WMS is a set of hardware that monitors microbes, silica and organic material in the water supply on the ISS. The hardware ensures crew members can test and monitor the safety of their water supplies on future space missions, especially on long-duration missions to Mars, asteroids or other destinations where Earth-based testing would be difficult or impossible.
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirement for Long-Term Space Flight): Over the weekend FE-5 completed Day 3 and Day 4 of the ENERGY experiment and continued with Day 5 today. The 11 day ENERGY experiment will require FE-5 to continue diet logging and wear of the Armband Activity Monitor for the duration of the experiment. In addition, FE-5 took urine and water samples on Saturday and repeated those activities again today. The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Astronauts often lose body mass with extended stays in space for reasons that remain unclear, although increased exercise as a microgravity countermeasure may be a factor. Knowing details of astronaut metabolism and activity, combined with other conditions, will help ensure that crews are properly nourished on long missions. 
Tropical Cyclone: FE-5 set up a camera in Cupola window 1 to provide images of Hurricane Matthew, which was rated as a Category 4 cyclone as of this morning.  The Tropical Cyclone investigation is used to capture images of tropical cyclones and hurricanes that are rated at Category 3 or greater on the Saffir-Simpson scale.  A pseudo-stereoscopic method is used to determine the altitudes of the cloud tops near the center (eye) of a cyclone by precisely tracking the apparent positions of cloud features with respect to the Earth and how those positions change over time as an observer (the ISS in this case) passes over the storm.  The photographic images will be used to demonstrate that pseudo-spectroscopy can be used to measure the cloud altitudes to sufficient precision so that, when combined with other remote-sensing data, an accurate determination of the intensity of hurricane or cyclone can be made.
Cygnus Robotics On-Board Training (OBT):  FE-5 and FE-6 studied materials for Cygnus rendezvous and capture.  They will also perform several 30m Approach, 2m Approach and Capture Point (CP) Hold runs using the Robotics On-Board Training (ROBoT). 
Cygnus Proximity Communication System (PROX) System Checkout:  FE-5 checked out commanding function of the Cygnus Portable Computer System (PCS) Hardware Command Panel (HCP).  This checkout verified that commands from PCS HCP are received by PROX. 

