
Photography of the Juno Spacecraft: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano set up a camera in the MRM2 port window for automated photography of the transit of the Juno spacecraft during its closest and final approach to Earth on its way to Jupiter. The Juno spacecraft launched aboard an Atlas V-551 rocket from Cape Canaveral, Florida on August 5, 2011, and will reach Jupiter in July 2016. The spacecraft will orbit Jupiter 32 times, skimming to within 3,100 miles above the planet’s cloud tops, for approximately one year. Juno’s principal goal is to understand the origin and evolution of Jupiter.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment:  FE-6 Nyberg conducted the 2nd of the new series of 12 InSPACE-3 runs. This new series uses the same test parameter settings as previous runs but with an increase in the duration from 2 hours to between 4.5 and 6 hours.  This will allow investigation of a continued chain-like aggregation phenomena observed towards the end of some of the previous shorter duration runs. InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state with the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Reversible Figures Experiment:  FE-3 Hopkins connected the Reversible Figures hardware to the ESA Multipurpose Payload Laptop in Columbus and performed the Reversible Figures experiment protocol in free floating conditions. Each subject performs this activity at least four times during their stay on board.  Reversible Figures investigates whether the perception of ambiguous perspective-reversible figures that can normally be seen to change in perspective or orientation is affected by microgravity.  A comparison will be made of the perceived reversals during visualization of the figures in crewmembers that occurs before, during and after long-term exposure to microgravity. It is expected that measurable, perceptual differences will provide insight into human cognitive-perception dynamics in the microgravity environment of the ISS and that of the Earth.
ISS Emergency Drill:  All six crewmembers participated in an ISS emergency drill and debrief. Today’s scenario was a fire in the Columbus module.  The purpose of this drill is to practice ISS emergency responses based on information provided by the simulator. The crew will physically translate through ISS to appropriate locations in order to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces. They also practiced procedure execution and associated decision making, all while exercising communication skills with MCC-H and MCC-M.

