
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #6 Operations:  Overnight, three unsuccessful attempts were made to retract the secondary latch associated with deployer # 6, which would have allowed the deployment of the remaining two cubesats for this operation.  The next troubleshooting attempt to launch the cubesats will involve cycling the latches during a Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) E-stop test to jolt the deployer.  A total of 14 cubesats have been deployed this week:  2 Danish satellites and 12 Planet Lab Doves.  The Danish satellite GOMX-3 has an advanced antenna-pointing system and a variety of communications capabilities. It contains radios to test reception and data downlink for GPS satellites, the military and for weather monitoring, air traffic control and other uses.  The Danish satellite AAUSAT-5 uses a student-designed and constructed Automatic Identification System (AIS) receiver to track ship signals in support of a space-based AIS system. The Dove nanosatellites enable imagery of the entire planet to be taken on a frequent basis, with humanitarian and environmental applications ranging from monitoring deforestation and the ice caps to disaster relief and improving agriculture yields in developing nations
 
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max:  For his Flight Day 195 Sprint VO2 session, Kelly attached Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes to himself, set up and donned Heart Rate Monitor hardware, performed Portable Pulmonary Function System calibrations, and then performed the VO2 protocol.  The Sprint VO2 investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers while reducing total exercise time during long-duration space missions
 
Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) 2 Rack Interface Unit (RIU) Replacement:  This morning, Kelly replaced the failed MELFI 2 RIU.  Following the replacement, ground teams successfully activated MELFI 2.  On September 7th this unit stopped providing Health and Status updates and the temperature started to change, indicating a Brayton motor stop.
 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo Setup:  Yui reviewed procedures and participated in a conference with the SPHERES ground team in preparation for SPHERES Vertigo runs tomorrow.  This investigation uses the SPHERES free-flying satellites to demonstrate and test enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct 3D models of a target object and then perform relative navigation solely by reference to those 3D models.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly continues a week-long set of Sleep Log entries by making a daily entry.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack 2 (MSPR2) Video Recording Unit 2 (VRU2) Checkout:  Yui provided support for troubleshooting an issue with high rate data link data packets from the MSPR2 VRU2.  He connected two camcorders to the MSPR2 so that the ground can command downlink of images.
 
Node 1 Nadir Power Connections Part 1:  As part of USOS Reconfiguation, Lindgren and Yui changed out bulkhead feedthrough connectors in the Lab to Node 1 vestibule.  They then mated pre-routed jumper cables to the ISS 2 and 3 power domains.  An additional activity is scheduled tomorrow in order to mate an alternate set of jumper cables to the 1 and 4 power domains.  These cables will provide power to Node 1 Nadir Berthing Port and Galley Rack.
Service Module (SM) 8.08 Software Transition:  Today, the Service Module Central Computers (ЦВМ) and Service Module Terminal Computers (TBM) were upgraded from the SM 8.07 software load to the SM 8.08 software load.  The new software will support new Russian Cargo and Soyuz vehicles as well as provide 20 new Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) Modes and removes SM software related to Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV).
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  During MSS power-up today, the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm-2 Shoulder Yaw joint failed to read the expected position and reported an Invalid Joint Position.  The flight control engineering teams are working to troubleshoot and gather data.   Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) science operations for today have been postponed while they work the issue.
 

