
Cardio Ox (Human Research):  Wiseman, acting as the Crew Medical Officer operator, took flight day 15 Blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of Wilmore.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Rodent Research-1:  The Crew gathered tools and conducted a procedure review for this weekend’s Rodent Research activity.
Cygnus Hardware Command Panel (HCP) and PROX Checkout:  Following yesterday’s successful checkout of Proximity Communications System (PROX) string “B”, Gerst worked with ground teams in order to checkout string “A”.  PROX is a wireless communications system that enables direct communications between the Cygnus spacecraft and ISS.  Utilizing the HCP, ISS Crew has the ability to send commands for Cygnus to retreat to 30m or 100m below ISS, hold approach, free drift, and even abort during its final approach to the ISS. Cygnus Launch Commit Criteria Flight Rules require verification of two fully functional ISS PROX equipment strings prior to launch.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Gerst deconfigured EVA hardware that was used during EVA 27 and started to configure the hardware in order to support upcoming EVA 28. In addition, he performed an inspection of all safety and waist tethers and D-ring extenders for structural integrity.  EVA 28 is currently scheduled to occur on October 15th in order to carry out a replacement of the Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) 3A.
ISS Emergency Drill On-Board Training (OBT):  All six crewmembers participated in two emergency drill scenarios then conducted a debrief with ground teams. Today’s training included a rapid depressurization in the FGB for the 1st session, followed by a fire in Node 1 scenario in the 2nd session. The purpose of these drills is to practice ISS emergency responses based on information provided by a simulator. The crew physically translates through ISS to appropriate locations in order to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces. They also practiced procedure execution and associated decision making, all while exercising communication skills with Mission Control Center (MCC) Houston and Moscow.
Lab Starboard ETVCG Light Checkout:  Yesterday evening, Flight Controllers activated the Lab Starboard External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) Luminaire, which was installed during US EVA 27.  The Luminaire check out was successful with expected current draw and visual confirmation.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Black Flakes:  Recent on-orbit photographs of the WHC Pressure Relief EDV have shown the presence of small black flakes.  These flakes are a potential concern for the WHC dose pump, and a possible contributor or symptom of the WHC dose pump failure experienced on October 3rd. Ground teams are working on a forward plan to investigate, meanwhile WHC continues to operate nominally.

