
54S Undock and Landing: The 54 Soyuz vehicle undocked successfully from the Mini Research Module (MRM)-2 Zenith Docking Port at 2:56 AM CT this morning. Following the completion of a fly-around maneuver, during which the crew took photos of ISS in celebration of its 20th Anniversary on-orbit, 54S completed a nominal de-orbit burn, separation of modules, and descent; the Soyuz vehicle landed in Dzhezkazgan, Kazakhstan at approximately 6:44 AM CT bringing Drew Feustel, Ricky Arnold, and Oleg Artemyev safely home to Earth.
Functional Immune: The crew completed the Functional Immune Health Assessment Questionnaire. Functional Immune analyzes blood and saliva samples to determine the changes taking place in crewmembers’ immune systems during flight. The changes in the immune system are also compared with crewmembers’ self-reported health information. Results are expected to provide new insight into the possible health risks of long-duration space travel, including future missions to Mars, asteroids, or other distant destinations.
Meteor:  Today the crew successfully recovered the Meteor laptop and checked the camera settings.  The next target of opportunity for the investigation is the Draconids meteor shower with a peak of 08-Oct-2018, but significant meteor flux occurring as early as 06-Oct.  The Draconids shower occurs when the Earth passes through the dust debris left by comet 21P/Giacobini-Zinner.  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. The study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.
Pressure Management Device (PMD) Unpack and Deploy: PMD is a new device that allows for the depressurization and repressurization of vestibules without venting the air overboard. Scheduled for its first use this Friday, the crew unpacked PMD today and pre-deployed the unit in preparation for use during the upcoming Lab/Node 2 Fine Vestibule Leak Check; successful operation of PMD will help conserve ISS resources when both berthing visiting vehicles and conducting vestibules leak checks.

