
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: The HRF-1 rack was configured and Actiwatch-plus devices were hooked up for battery charge and data downlink. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Bio-Monitor iPad setup and sample collection setup was completed. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Circadian Light: A day assessment of Circadian Light was performed using the EveryWear app on an iPad. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Sleep in Orbit:  The crew completed pre-measurement activities. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep In Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG based sleep monitoring.
Systems:
Teal Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation Stabilization (CEVIS) Installation: The crew removed the current CEVIS hardware and attempted installation of the new Teal CEVIS system and associated items. However, they ran into issues with volume limitations and the team will have to rethink the activity and whether to revert back to the previous system or proceed with troubleshooting. CEVIS provides the crew with aerobic and cardiovascular conditioning through recumbent or upright cycling activities.
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs in October. They completed a preparation of the equipment lock and Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) in preparation for suit donning and Extravehicular (EV) and Intravehicular (IV) EMU On-orbit Fitcheck Verifications (OFVs). These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and Radio Frequency Group (RFG) retrieval EVAs scheduled for later this month.
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) with KUDUwave Software Setup and Test: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
