
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight):  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano began his diet protocol for a 10 day session of ESA’s ENERGY experiment.  He also positioned an armband monitor on his right triceps, where it will be worn for the entire 10 day period.  A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a common observation during space flight. ENERGY measures change in energy balance in crewmembers following long term space flight.  It also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge is of great importance to ensure optimal crew health and performance, overall mission success, and to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food are provided while the crew is on-orbit.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1 Sample Setup: FE-5 Parmitano homogenized the second BCAT-C1 sample while images of the activity and results were captured. The CSA BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in a liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions have the unique property that the particles phase separate and the particles self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light. Photographing these samples in microgravity allows the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity.
Dose Distribution Inside the International Space Station – 3D (DOSIS-3D):  FE-3 Hopkins installed DOSIS 3D passive detector packs in the Columbus module.  ESA’s DOSIS-3D payload determines the radiation field parameters absorbed dose and dose equivalent inside the ISS with various active and passive radiation detector devices, supporting creation of a concise three dimensional (3D) dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-1 Experiment:  Today FE-6 Nyberg mixed the 9th of 10 samples for the ACE-M-1 experiment in the Fluids Integrated Rack facility.  ACE-M-1 is the first in a series of microscopic imaging investigations of materials which contain small colloidal particles which remain evenly dispersed and distributed within the material. Colloidal gels define the microstructure of materials, including many consumer products.  When the structures created in commercial colloidal gel products can no longer support the gravitational stresses (e.g. buoyancy) on the structures, they collapse.  This often determines the shelf life of the product. This investigation takes advantage of the unique environment onboard the ISS to separate the effects induced by Earth’s gravity to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within these colloidal materials.
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities: All six crewmembers participated in a review of general emergency response instructions and assessed roles and responsibilities in the event of an onboard emergency.
US Segment Crew Handover: Parmitano performed a handover to newly arrived crewmember Hopkins. Topics covered included recommendations for on-orbit practices, lessons learned, and familiarization of ISS Systems and Payloads within each USOS module.
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Transient Failure:  Node 3 CDRA experienced a transient failure today.  Although the exact cause of the failure is unknown at this time, the team did observe Air Selector Valve (ASV)-1 slow transit time just prior to the failure.  Ground teams have since restarted the Node 3 CDRA and the system is operating nominally.  Ground teams will continue investigating the cause of the failure.
 

