
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano conducted the 2nd of the new series of 12 InSPACE-3 runs. This new series uses the same test parameter settings as previous runs but with an increase in the duration from 2 hours to between 4.5 and 6 hours.  This will allow investigation of a continued chain-like aggregation phenomena observed towards the end of some of the previous shorter duration runs. InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state with the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Facility Cable Configuration for Constrained Vapor Bubble (CVB)-2 Operations: FE-3 Hopkins continued reconfiguration of the FIR for upcoming CVB operations. CVB aims to achieve a better understanding of the physics of evaporation and condensation and how they affect cooling processes in microgravity using a remotely controlled microscope and a small cooling device.  The results of these experiments could lead to the development of more efficient cooling systems in microelectronics on Earth and in space.
eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS (VIABLE) Experiment: Parmitano reviewed the VIABLE Onboard Training (OBT) then touched experimental materials located on top covers of 4 bags with his palm.  He then blew on experimental materials located on those covers and photographed the bags inside the FGB locker. These activities are performed at 6 month intervals. VIABLE ISS involves the evaluation of microbial biofilm development on metallic and textile space materials located inside and on the cover of Nomex pouches. Microbial biofilms are known for causing damage and contamination on the Mir Space Station and the ISS. The potential application of novel methodologies and products to treat space materials may lead to improvements in the environmental quality of confined human habitats in space and on Earth.
Columbus Smoke Detector Maintenance: As part of routine maintenance, Parmitano inspected and cleaned Columbus Cabin Smoke Detectors #1 and #2 using the Intravehicular Activity (IVA) Connector Cleaning Tool and Vacuum Cleaner Assembly.
Vozdukh Performance Test – Vozdukh was activated yesterday in Manual Mode 6 to determine its actual performance in preparation for the 9 crew timeframe and will remain in that mode until Friday.  During this test, both Carbon Dioxide Removal Assemblies (CDRAs) will remain in standby.  Node 3 CDRA will only be activated as necessary to maintain ppCO2 within approved limits as required.

