
Veg-04B: The crew performed a routine plant check.  This includes the assessment of individual plant pillows, the addition of water as necessary, and photography of the Mizuna plants.  With earlier versions of the Veggie experiments, the root mat is typically filled when the experiment is initiated.  The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.  A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight.
Systems:
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Charging Discharging Unit (BCDU) 2B2 Replacement (USOS EVA#58): Over the past weekend, when activating the new Li-Ion 2B2 battery BCDU, the converter close command failed. Ground teams have determined that performing an EVA to replace the failed BCDU with a new spare will restore full functionality to the Channel 2B.
Therefore, today’s USOS EVA#58 has the primary goal to remove the failed Channel 2B BDCU and replace it with a new spare that is currently stored on the Express Logistics Carrier (ELC) #1.  EV1 (Koch) and EV2 (Meir) egressed the Airlock around 6:38 CT for total EVA duration of 07 hours and 17 minutes. The CDR (Parmitano) and FE-9 (Morgan) provided intravehicular (IV) support controlling the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to assist EV1 to remove the spare BCDU from the ELC#1 location. Overall, EV1 and EV2 completed the following EVA tasks:

Replace Failed 2B2 BCDU with the spare BCDU
TSOP installation
CP13 Ethernet Cable Routing (partial)
EXT MDM Ethernet Cable disconnect
BCDU MLI removal/tie back
P6 2B Clean-Up/4B Setup

Furthermore, during the EVA, EV1 (Koch) and EV2 (Meir) spoke with the President of the United States Donald Trump who congratulated them on the first historic all-female EVA.

