
56 Soyuz (56S) Anomaly Follow Up:   Following yesterday’s launch anomaly, the 56S crew returned to Moscow after medical evaluations in Baikonur, Kazakhstan.  Roscosmos has created an investigative commission to look into the booster anomaly. In addition, Energia has formed a commission to find ways to improve performance and reliability of the Soyuz launch escape system.  ISS Increment Teams are actively replanning activities as a result of the launch anomaly.
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Cargo Transfer:  The crew continued HTV-7 cargo transfer operations today. Ground specialists estimate approximately 10 hours remain to complete transfer.
Myotones Measurements:  A crewmember performed skin marking and measurements with the Myotones Device. Data was then transferred to the laptop. Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Sextant Navigation:  The Crew performed the sixth Sextant Navigation session using the Star, planet and Moon Limb sighting. .  The primary science objective of sighting using the method of lunar distances was fully accomplished. This session also served to rehearse the technique that will be used for Orion lunar navigation. Astronauts onboard the ISS test a hand-held sextant that is intended for use on future Orion exploration missions. The results from this investigation can aid in the development of emergency navigation methods for future manned spacecraft. Historically, Gemini missions in 1965-66 were the first to exercise sextant sightings from a spacecraft. A sextant was built into Apollo vehicles as a navigation backup in case of lost communications.
Basic Express Rack #10B Locker remove:  Lockers were removed from the newly installed Basic Express Rack 10B and stowed in new locations. EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station (EXPRESS) Racks are multipurpose payload rack systems that store and support research aboard the ISS. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
Time Perception in Microgravity: Time Perception in Microgravity: The crew performed a Time perception session. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks.  Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination.
NanoRacks Platform 3 Relocate: The NanoRacks Platform 3 was relocated from Express Rack 4 to Express Rack 10B. NanoRacks Platforms is a multipurpose research facility on board the ISS. NanoRacks Platforms supports NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.

