
USOS ExtraVehicular Activities (EVAs) Rescheduled: Due to Monday’s MLM radiator coolant leak and the resulting change in the environment around the ISS, the USOS Microorganisms EVA that was originally planned for today was deferred. Ground specialists continue to review the data and teams are working towards new EVA dates. The Microorganisms EVA is planned for no earlier than next Thursday, October 19th and the RFG Retrieval EVA is planned for no earlier than Monday, October 30th.
Payloads:
Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2): An ANITA-2 sampling bag was filled and evacuated for a PR measurement demonstration. The ANITA-2 is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The remaining steps to install the Science Module 3B into Science Instrument Cold Atom Lab in ExPRESS Rack 7 were completed. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The CIPHER Sample Collection setup was completed. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Circadian Light: Circadian Light LED was activated and will be the main Crew Quarter light source for upcoming weeks during the Circadian Light experiment run. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
ESA-Education Payload Operations (ESA-EPO):  The crew printed out nine artworks from the “My Favorite Place on Earth” EPO project, signed them, and took photos of each artwork free floating in the Cupola. ESA’s ISS Education Program makes use of human spaceflight and the ISS as a means to capture the attention and the interest of students, to attract them to study, in particular, scientific, and technical disciplines, and to appreciate and understand the benefits, challenges, and importance of space for Europe, and as a member of a global economy.
Systems:
Hatch Seal Inspection & Cleaning: The crew inspected the hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surfaces, crank handle mechanisms, and hatch seal interlocking joints for damage or foreign object debris (FOD) for the following locations: Node 3 (Forward, Nadir, Starboard), PMM, Airlock (Port, Starboard), JEM, and JLP. The crew also cleaned the Lab Forward hatch seal. 
EVA Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs in October. They completed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap, an EMU Restraint Inspection, an EVA Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I) Degas, and EVA Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Installation Practice. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and Radio Frequency Groups (RFG)/Trundle Bearing Assembly (TBA) EVAs, scheduled for no earlier than Thursday, October 19th and no earlier than Monday, October 30th respectively.
Space Station Computer (SSC) Client 1809 Software Update: Today the crew completed activities in preparation for Windows 10 v1809 software updates to the onboard SSCs. This version will receive extended support through 2028 and the update will provide better IT security and allow for the installation of application updates that require a new version of Windows. These updates will be ongoing until early December.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until December 8th before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
