
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus (AWP): Multiple crew members retrieved and donned their AWPs in support of the Standard Measures investigation. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until it is downloaded for analysis.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew set up the Ultrasound (USND) system and performed several scans in support of a CIPHER session. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed in support of this continuing investigation. Circadian Light tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Earthshine from ISS: The experiment hardware was set up, photos were taken of the crew with the experiment, and a training session was performed. The Earthshine from ISS investigation involves the thorough analysis of photos taken of the Moon from the ISS at specific points in the lunar cycle to study changes in the Earth’s reflectance of light, or albedo. Activities consist of in-flight sessions comprised of photography of the Moon by the crew using a handheld digital camera and lens available aboard the ISS.
ISS Ham: An ISS Ham pass was supported with Valley Stream South High School in Valley Stream, NY. The school believes the ISS Ham contacts are important because Astronauts are role models. They exemplify that hard work and dedication really do make a difference. They are adventurous, brave, and adaptable, and the school feels students benefit from these positive role models. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI): A routine cold box inspection was performed on MELFI 1 and MELFI 2. This inspection looks for evidence of condensation and/or corrosion in the area. The MELFI is a cold storage unit capable of maintaining experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures throughout a mission. The MELFI units use nitrogen as a working fluid and have standard set points of -95°C, -35°C and 2°C.
Systems:
Visiting Vehicle Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until December before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. The crew also began cargo prepack operations in preparation for the arrival of the SpX-29 cargo vehicle. SpX-29 is planned to arrive in early November and remain at the space station for 30 days before returning safely to Earth.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: As part of standard system health monitoring on the ISS, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through ventilation inlets and outlets in Node 3, the Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM), and the Oxygen Generator System (OGS). The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that ideal atmospheric condition is maintained throughout ISS.
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Console Checkout: The crew performed a checkout of the JEMRMS Console, including activation of the Robotics Laptop Terminal 2 (RLT 2), Remote Manipulator System (RMS) Monitors 1 & 2, and CCP. The purpose of this activity was to checkout and take imagery of the JEMRMS console prior to upcoming SpX-29 ILLUMA-T transfer operations. 
Hatch Seal Clean & Inspection: The crew inspected the hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surfaces, crank handle mechanisms, and hatch seal interlocking joints for damage or Foreign Object Debris (FOD) on the Japanese Logistics Module (JLP) and the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM). The crew did not note anything of significance from these inspections. The crew also cleaned FOD from the Starboard side of the Lab Forward Hatch Seal.
