
Body Measures:  Lindgren, with Kelly as the operator, completed his Flight Day 80 Body Measures data collection.  Lindgren set up the cameras and video, donned the body marker instrumentation, and then collected the calibration and body pose photographs and physical body measurements.  With Kelly’s assistance he collected the Neutral Body Posture video.  NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. Still and video imagery is captured and a tape measure is used to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts before, during and after their flight missions.
 
Habitability:  Today Kelly documented his recent observations related to human factors and habitability for the Habitability investigation.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Large Format Motion Picture Camera (IMAX):  Yui connected the IMAX Codex to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for a downlink of recorded video files.  IMAX filmmakers intend to produce a three dimensional movie called A Perfect Planet, using ISS-based video and images to show how natural and human forces shape planet Earth. The film will also showcase NASA’s exploration efforts and highlight the ISS as a platform for scientific research and a stepping stone to deep space exploration
 
Russian Pilot-T Experiment:  Kelly performed a session for the Russian experiment Pilot-T. The goal of Pilot-T is to improve methods and develop equipment to assess and predict crewmember performance reliability during the execution of complex operator tasks (such as piloting a space vehicle or controlling transport and robotic equipment on the surface of a spacecraft) during various stages of long-term spaceflight.
 
Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Glycerol/Water Fill:  Kononenko filled the inkjet droplet device with glycerol and water in preparation for the experiment protocol on each sample container.  OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and in cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
 
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions-3 (InSPACE3):  Lindgren inspected and documented the condition of the InSPACE vial assemblies.  He also used the BCAT-3 Magnet to evenly distribute the particles in the vial assemblies to support further observations.  InSPACE-3 studies magnetic colloidal mixtures under the influence of various magnetic fields. A magnetic colloidal fluid, a type of smart fluid, contains materials which solidify within the liquid when a magnetic field is applied to it, thus changing the physical properties of the liquid as a whole.  Conducting these experiments on board the ISS allows scientists to examine in detail the network and arrangement of the ‘frozen’ solid structures unaffected by the force of gravity which can deform them on Earth.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  On Monday, Kelly and Kornienko completed sessions of the Fine Motor Skills experiment.  During the experiment they performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills investigation is to identify trends or variations in fine motor performance in microgravity over the duration of a year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance changes before and after gravitational transitions, such as during early flight adaptation and after return to Earth.
 
Journals:  On Saturday and Monday Kelly performed Journals activities. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
ISS Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Umbilical (IEU) Removal and Replacement (R&R):  On September 23, the crew found a damaged seal on the coolant loop outlet port in the connector that connects the IEU to the EMU.  Both IEUs were due to be changed out early next year due to life time expiration.  The team elected to R&R both expiring IEUs to support upcoming EMU operations. Today, Yui completed the R&R and performed part 1 of the activation and checkout procedure.  Part 2 of the activation and checkout procedure will be done tomorrow.
 
Water Sample and Analysis:  Today, Yui collected two water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for inflight analysis.  This was a regularly scheduled test to verify water quality.  He then initiated a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) sample analysis and stowed the other sample for incubation prior to microbial and coliform analysis on Thursday.
 

