
NeuroMapping: Today two 52S crewmembers set up the NeuroMapping hardware and performed their Flight Day 30 tests in “strapped in” and “free floating” body configurations. During the test, the crewmembers executed three Behavioral Assessments: mental rotation, sensorimotor adaptation, and motor-cognitive dual tasking. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, or multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Configuration for Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): To support the ACME payload investigation, the crew disconnected water umbilicals at the CIR Z-Panel to remove water pressure from the rack and then removed the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the CIR combustion chamber for the final time. The ACME chamber insert for the first set of test points was configured and connected into the CIR Combustion Chamber.  After the water umbilicals were reconnected to the Z-Panel, the crew performed a leak check. Due to the amount of hardware requiring installation, activities will be conducted over the next two days. The ACME investigation is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the CIR. ACME’s primary goal is to improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Post Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Tasks: Today crewmembers participated in an EVA debrief conference with ground specialists, preformed battery maintenance, and serviced the water system on the Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) used during yesterday’s EVA. During US EVA #45 the crew successfully Removed and Replaced (R&R) the External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) located at Camera Port 9 (CP9) and lubricated the newly installed Latching End Effector (LEE) A on the Space Station Robotic Manipulator System (SSRMS).  

