
Cold Atom Lab (CAL):  A Crewmember attached the Helium monitor to the front of the CAL hardware to collect readings. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Lighting Effects:  Crew performed a numerical and color discrimination visual test at a designated location. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): Today the eight detectors were retrieved from NOD3F3 rack front area location and handed back to the Russian crew for data extraction and download. This Canadian Space Agency investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS.  These bubble detectors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
BioServe Protein Crystallography (BPC)-1: A crewmember used pipettes to mix varying viscosity solutions into the crystallization plates. BPC-1 seeks to demonstrate the feasibility of conducting protein crystal growth in real time onboard the ISS.  Crewmembers add solutions to the hardware, observe the crystals that form and adjust for follow-on experiments. This approach gives scientists the ability to optimize crystal growth in microgravity instead of waiting for samples to return and then launching them again.
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)7 Cargo Transfer:  The crew continued HTV7 cargo transfer operations today. Ground specialists estimate approximately ~4 hours remain to complete transfer of identified items.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Li-Ion Battery Data Logging:  Today the crew initiated a charging Auto cycle of two EMU Long Life Batteries (LLB) with data logging. Over the course of three days, the Auto cycle will capture battery health data and help ground experts understand the charge and discharge capacities of these new and improved LLBs. The data will also be used to compare charging system performance between the on-orbit and ground based systems.

