
Payloads
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): The crew performed a post Packed Bed Reactor Experiment-2 (PBRE-2) residual cleanup and wiped down the MSG. The MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
STaARS BioScience-12: The crew retrieved STaARS Cryotube Kits from cold stowage, agitated the three Experiment Containers and then placed all the contents into the STaARS facility. Novel Protein Aggregation/degradation Studies in the Unique ISS Environment Provide Mechanistic Insights Relevant to Biopharmaceutical Development and Degenerative Diseases (STaARS BioScience-12) examines protein folding and aggregation under the unique stresses of space, including microgravity- and cosmic radiation-dependent folding and degradation and the combination of these factors. Biopharmaceuticals play a significant role in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of human diseases, but a challenge in making them is the instability and degradation of their proteins. This investigation may help develop new strategies to prevent protein degradation and support design of therapeutic biopharmaceuticals.
Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP): The crew installed the MPEP on to the JEM slide table and then installed the Handhold Exp Platform Adapter on to the MPEP. Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform provides the structural backbone for deployers when being transferred to the outside via the Kibo airlock and grasped by the JRMS robotic arm.
Rhodium Space Rhizosphere: The crew removed the Rhodium Space Rhizosphere science Chambers (5) from the ambient stow location and placed the samples into cold stowage. Soil Health in Space: Determination of Gravitational Effects on Soil Stability for Controlled Environment Agriculture (Rhodium Space Rhizosphere) examines the effects of spaceflight on the soil aggregates formed by fungi and bacteria. Recent studies have shown a connection between biological activity, aggregation formation, and the overall capacity of soils to sustainably produce nutritious food crops. A better understanding of fungal and bacterial structures and functions in soil could improve food production on Earth and in space. 
Systems
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove and Replace (R&R):  Today, the crew replaced the Pre-Treat Tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
ZBook Client Swap: Today, the crew replaced the T61P laptop serving as the ARED SSC with a Zbook. Following ground configurations the crew performed an ARED VIS range of motion (ROM) test. This ensured any minor adjustments in the location of the new ZBook and cabling did not place anything in the path of the ARED VIS.

