
Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) Spare Radiator External Coolant Leak: Yesterday, video downlink to the ground and visual observation by the crew identified an external coolant leak in the spare radiator on the exterior of the MLM on the Russian Segment. This radiator was installed during RS EVA #56 last summer but was not in use at the time.  This radiator provides cooling for future MLM payloads, as well as serving as a backup to the prime unit. The primary cooling unit is unaffected by the leak and the leak has since tapered to a near complete stop. Teams are working to assess the impacts to operations ahead of Thursday’s USOS Microorganisms ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA).
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): Installation of Science Module 3B into Science Instrument Cold Atom Lab in ExPRESS Rack 7 was partially completed. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Circadian Light: A day assessment of Circadian Light was performed using the EveryWear app on an iPad. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1): Resupply activities were performed for the HRF-1 Rack. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Belgian Defense (KSOO), Koninklijke School voor Onderofficieren, Sint-Truiden and IEPSCF Colfontaine in Colfontaine, Belgium. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM): The SCEM was re-installed into the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Work Volume and the Gas Bottle Unit was installed into the Small Experiment Area. The SCEM is designed to investigate the oxygen concentration required to sustain a flame over solid fuels. It is also possible to obtain the limiting electric current caused by self-ignition of the insulated wires due to short-circuit. Through studies by SCEM, combustion characteristics of solid materials in the microgravity environment where no buoyancy-induced convection occurs will be identified, as well as the effect of gravity on the combustion limit of solid materials.
Systems:
EVA Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs in October. They completed EVA Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Installation Practice, an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Restraint Inspection, an additional EVA EMU OFV, EVA Tool Configuring, Battery Stowage Compartment Installation and Removal, and EVA Camera Configuration. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Microorganisms and Radio Frequency Groups (RFG)/Trundle Bearing Assembly (TBA) EVAs, scheduled for Thursday and next Friday respectively.
Photo/TV Port 4 Truss Exterior Survey: Shortly after the spare radiator coolant leak on the MLM, the ISS experienced two Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Power on Resets (POR) on the Port 4 Truss from channels 2A and 4A. For a short time, both channels were operating on battery power only, but functionality was quickly restored. To gather more information and understand the leak and possible connection to these anomalies, the crew took imagery of the Port 4 Truss.
Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew inspected the hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surfaces, crank handle mechanisms, and hatch seal interlocking joints for damage or foreign object debris (FOD) on the USOS hatches. They also inspected the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) hatch kicker pins. On the Lab Forward Hatch, the crew reported a divot at nadir slightly starboard from center.
On-Board Training (OBT) Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) Familiarization & Conference: For further EVA preparation, the crew participated in robotics training to familiarize themselves with the lighting conditions in different settings. This was followed by a robotics crew conference for all USOS crew members. During EVAs, the crew is reliant on the various robotics systems on the outside of the ISS, including the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). Once outside the hatch, the robotics are controlled primarily by the crew still inside the ISS using the Robotics WorkStation (RWS), so thorough training is necessary.
