
56 Soyuz (56S) Anomaly: 56S launched today at 3:40 AM CDT.  At 3:42 AM CDT the Soyuz crew reported that a booster failure had occurred.  Per standard response to a booster abort in this timeframe, the descent module separated and performed a ballistic descent and landing near Dzhezkazgan, Kazakhstan.  At 4:20 AM CDT, Russian Search and Rescue forces arrived at the landing location after which the crew was safely extracted and transported to Dzhezkazgan via helicopter. They were subsequently transported via fixed wing aircraft to Baikonur, Kazakhstan.
Team Task Switching (TTS): The crew completed a TTS survey today. When crewmembers are required to switch their attention between tasks frequently, performance on each of the tasks can be negatively affected.  The objective of the TTS investigation is to gain knowledge about whether or not crewmembers have difficulty in switching tasks and determine the impacts of these switches to both reduce any negative consequences and improve individual and team motivation and effectiveness.
Food Acceptability: The crew completed the Food Acceptability questionnaires today. This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Myotones: The crew gathered Myotones Hardware in preparation of upcoming operations. The investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Basic Express Rack #10B Locker remove: Lockers were removed from the newly installed Basic Express Rack (BER) #10B and stowed in new locations. EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station (EXPRESS) Racks are multipurpose payload rack systems that store and support research aboard the ISS. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Cargo Transfer: The crew continued HTV-7 cargo transfer operations today. Ground specialists estimate approximately 15 hours remain to complete transfer.

