
Cygnus Launch Status:  Yesterday’s planned launch of the OA-5 mission was postponed for 24 hours due to an issue with a ground support equipment.  OA-5 launch is set for today, 17-October at 6:40 PM CDT.  This launch attempt will result in OA loitering until after 48S docking, scheduled for Friday 21-October.  OA-5 approach and berthing is planned no earlier than 23-October. 
Body Measures: Over the weekend, FE-6 performed the Return minus 15 day (R-15) session for Body Measures with assistance with FE-5.  The crew configured still cameras and video, then collected the Neutral Body Posture video and stow the equipment. NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. Still and video imagery is captured and a tape measure is used to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts before, during and after their flight missions. 
Urine Collections: Over the weekend, the crew continued with collections in support of several Human Research Experiments.  Urine samples were collected, spun in the refrigerated centrifuge and placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for the Biochemical Profile, CardioOx, and Repository experiments. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health. Repository is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Biological Rhythms 48-Hour Session: Sunday, FE-5 initiated a 48-hour Biological Rhythms session, donning a Holter Monitor and Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes.  Today, half-way through the collection period, he changed the Multimedia Card (MMC) and resumed data collection.  Biological Rhythms 48 hours is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) experiment that studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Electromagnetic Levitation (EML) Configuration: FE-5 continued with configuration of the EML facility today, opening the valve to the Argon (Ar) gas supply and closing the Helium (He) valve.  The crew then changed the magnification factor to standard mode.  The EML is a multi-user facility designed for containerless materials processing in space. 
Soyuz (47S) Return Cargo Packing: On Sunday, the crew started packing the cargo that will be returning on 47S. The remaining packing will be completed prior to undocking. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Microbial Air and Surface Sampling: The crew acquired air samples for microbial analysis using the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) with Petri Dishes and surface samples with slide media. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants, microbial contaminants from crewmembers and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.   
Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL) Reposition:  Earlier today the crew extended the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (A/L) slide table and repositioned the RELL in the JEM Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Transfer Interface (JODI) so that it is consistent with the configuration required by the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) for successful removal.  The JEM A/L slide table was then retracted back into the A/L.

