
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Operations: With remote guidance from the Cardio Ox ground teams, FE-5 assisted FE-6 in conducting an ultrasound scan after configuring the Voice-Activated Communication (VOX), attaching the Electrocardiograms (ECG) Electrodes, and marking the arteries; followed by blood pressure measurements using the Cardiolab Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Unit. The goal of the Cardio Ox investigation is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health. 
Marrow: FE-6 collected breath and ambient air samples in support of the Canadian Space Agency’s Marrow experiment.  The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on the bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
Cygnus Preparations:  FE-5 and FE-6 utilized training materials as part of a self-study session this morning to review Cygnus hardware, stowage and attached phase configuration. FE-6 also installed the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) system onto the Node 1 nadir hatch.  Following the installation the crew, working with ground teams, checked out the system. The checkout involved routing the video from the camera to the Cupola Robotics Work Station (RWS) monitors and to the ground. Video from the CBCS is used to aid the crew during Visiting Vehicle mating operations.  The crew also participated in a conference with ground teams to discuss Cygnus cargo operations. Orbital ATK (OA)-5 is scheduled to launch on October 16, with rendezvous and berthing on October 19th.

