
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins conducted periodic maintenance of the Airlock (A/L) cooling loop system. This included a partial feedwater tank dump/fill on EMU 3005 and a water recharge of EMU 3010 to make up for water used during Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLVTA) Removal and Replacement (R&R). Additionally, Hopkins performed a loop scrub and iodination on EMUs 3005 and 3010, Service Umbilical Unit (SCU), A/L heat exchanger, and Cassidy Backup Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG) to satisfy maintenance requirements.
Ocular Health (OH) Eye and Cardiac Ultrasounds: Alternating as the Chief Medical Office and Subject, FE-5 Parmitano and FE-7 Nyberg performed ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans with Hopkins assisting in the cardiac activities.  In-flight data collection wqw assisted by remote guidance from the ground to ensure proper positioning and data collection. Ocular ultrasound is used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Facility Cable Configuration for Constrained Vapor Bubble (CVB)-2 Operations:  Hopkins reconfigured cables in the FIR for upcoming FIR CVB operations. CVB aims to achieve a better understanding of the physics of evaporation and condensation and how they affect cooling processes in microgravity using a remotely controlled microscope and a small cooling device.  The results of these experiments could lead to the development of more efficient cooling systems in microelectronics on earth and in space.
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight):  Parmitano completed his 10 day session of ESA’s ENERGY experiment. He consumed a preselected diet, logged all food and drink consumed, and measured his intake and output of liquids and solids.  A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a common observation during space flight. ENERGY measures change in energy balance in crewmembers following long term space flight.  It also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge is of great importance to ensure optimal crew health and performance, overall mission success, and to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food are provided while the crew is on-orbit.

