ISS On-Orbit Status 10/17/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After wakeup, FE-4 Malenchenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
Yuri also completed the daily reboot of the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops.
 
FE-6 Hoshide closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola &amp; JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) windows to prevent their contamination from thruster effluents during today’s ISS reboost (11:24am EDT).
 
CDR Williams performed regular maintenance calibration on the sensors of the two CSA-O<sub>2</sub> (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) units 1047 &amp; 1055, after equipping them with fresh batteries.
 
Later, Williams took a CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated) from overhead stowage to “degas” it, i.e. to remove any free air bubbles that may have been ingested since its last use.      [The traditional procedure for “degassing” the container (by first draining, then refilling it with a fully charged water CWC) was replaced in 2004 by a rather ingenious new procedure developed and checked out on the KC-135 aircraft flying zero-G parabolas at JSC/Houston: Essentially, it involves the crewmember himself centrifuging the selected container by holding it away from the body and applying a slow rotation of ~15 rpm to himself, to separate air and water in the bag through centrifugal force, while simultaneously squeezing out the air by cinching down on bungee cords wrapped around the CWC.]
 
Afterwards, Sunita serviced the WRS (Water Recovery System), using the pumping equipment to initiate the periodic water transfer from the degassed CWC-I to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) Potable Water tank via “tee” hose and a freshly installed MRF (Microbial Removal Filter) cartridge as gas trap.  The MRF was left connected for future operations.    
 
Malenchenko terminated the overnight charging of the TEKh-62 ALBEDO battery, then set up the experiment at an SM window to run another 60-min test, using the FSS Photo Spectrum System.
 
Yuri also configured the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment with its battery freshly charged since this morning, setting it up at SM window #9 for operation and then using it to take more spectral and photographic imagery of Earth’s surface and atmosphere under ground commanding.  Later, the CDR closed out the experiment and dumped the data from Laptop 3 via the RSS1 terminal.     [By means of the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
Continuing her service of the NanoRack payload, Sunita deactivated mixing tubes #1006 3 &amp; 15 after checking with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center/Huntsville) on safe touch temperature.
 
Yuri started a new round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, working in the DC1 Pirs compartment to change out the PF1 &amp; PF2 dust filter cartridges and to clean the V1 &amp; V2 fan screens, the VD1 &amp; VD2 air ducts and the V3 fan screen.
 
In the Kibo lab, Hoshide serviced the JAXA MICB (MICROBE-3) experiment, first familiarizing himself with the MDS (Microbial Detection Sheet) sampling procedure, then retrieving 7 yeast &amp; mold MDS sheets from the 2 degC MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS), moistening the MDS cover film and performing the microbial sampling in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      [After taking location photographs, Aki cleaned up the sampling sites and stowed the MDS in the MICROBE-3 sheet return bag on the DMS1 Rack.]
 
Akihiko &amp; Sunita conducted jointly a 2 hr procedures review of the upcoming EVA-20 spacewalk.     [EVA-20 &amp; EVA-21 are planned between now and the departure of Soyuz 31S on 11/18.  The first spacewalk will address issues with the 3A Power Channel. If found necessary, the spacewalk would exchange an SSU (Sequential Shunt Unit) on the starboard truss. Planning for the second EVA is associated with channel 2B and the P6 ammonia leak.  The data shows the leak in the loop has accelerated, and that channel could be off-line by the end of the year if the leak trend continues.  Channel 2B carries significant loads for the ISS and would have impacts across ISS if it goes down.]
 
Also for EVA-20, Williams &amp; Hoshide configured required tools, hardware and bags, and reviewed training material on dealing with fluid QDs (Quick Disconnect) hardware carrying toxic ammonia (NH<sub>3</sub>).
 
At ~2:15pm EDT, Sui &amp; Aki conducted an audio teleconference with EVA-20 specialists.
 
FE-4 completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Later, Malenchenko took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Yuri also prepared for tomorrow’s scheduled R&amp;R (Removal &amp; Replacement) of the 4SPN2 replaceable pump panel of the KOB2 cooling loop in the SM.
 
Before Presleep (~3:40pm), Suni powers up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Suni turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
At 4:15am EDT, Hoshide held the weekly JAXA crew conference via phone with staff at SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center) at Tsukuba, Japan.
 
The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4/2x), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6).      [CDR &amp; FE-6 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Suni on Friday, for Aki on Thursday.  If any day is not completed, Suni &amp; Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day. Suni’s protocol for today showed ARED/CEVIS (cont.), with T2 (int., 4 min.) for tomorrow. Aki’s protocol for today showed T2 (int., 4 min.), none for tomorrow]
 
ISS Reboost Update:  A one-burn reboost of the ISS with the two SM main engines was performed this morning at 11:24am EDT with a burn duration of 19 sec, achieving a delta-V of 0.33 m/s (planned: 0.30 m/s), increasing mean altitude by 0.59 km.  After the burn, ISS was at 414.49 km mean altitude, with 427.17 km apogee height and 401.81 km perigee height.  Purpose of the reboost was to set up orbit phasing for the 32 Soyuz launch on 10/23 and 49 Progress 49P launch on 10/ 31.
 
Tasks listed for FE-4 Malenchenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U (Photo Image Coordinate Reference System) to record target sites on the Earth surface, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Bangkok, Thailand (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION:  The Thai capital city with well over 8 million is located just inland from the north coast of the Gulf of Thailand on the meandering Chao Phraya River. Today ISS had a mid-afternoon pass in partly cloudy weather with its approach from the SW.  At this time as ISS tracked over the northern Gulf of Thailand, the crew was to look for large urban area and try to capture it all in a single frame), Lilongwe, Malawi (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION SITE:  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass for this target that lies just right of track in partly cloudy weather.  This capital city of nearly 1 million is located in a plateau region SW of Lake Malawi. At this time as ISS approached from the SW, the crew tried to spot this urban area and acquire all of it within a single frame), Chandragup Mud Volcano, PAK (EDUCATIONAL OUTREACH SITE:  Active mud volcanoes are found along the southwestern coast of Pakistan.  These relatively small features are common in regions of mountain building such as the coast of Pakistan where the Arabian tectonic plate [the seafloor in this area] is moving northward and impinging on the complex Asian plate [Pakistani coast’. At this time, as ISS approached the coast from the SW in fair weather, the crew was to attempt a detailed mapping strip along the coast just inland to the right of track). CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION SITE:  ISS had partly cloudy weather for this early afternoon pass with this target just left of track. Like many Latin American cities in the tropics, Caracas with a population of 1.8 million lies at cooler higher altitudes inland from the coast. At this time as ISS approached the coast of the Caribbean Sea from the SW, trying for single-frame views of the city), and Nassau, Bahamas (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION:  ISS had a nadir, fair weather pass in mid-afternoon over the Bahamian capital city.  As ISS approached the northwestern Bahamas from the SW, the crew was to begin looking for this target just after crossing the much larger Andros Island.  The city of Nassau proper is located on the eastern half of New Providence Island; however the metropolitan area encompasses the entire island.
 

