
Crew-4 Freedom Departure: Due to unfavorable weather conditions at the splashdown site, the Crew-4 Freedom spacecraft undock was delayed from the previous departure date of October 13th. The next undock opportunity is tomorrow, October 14th at 10:30 am CT. The crew instead had a light duty day in preparation for undock slated tomorrow.
Payloads:
Dynamics of Microbiomes in Space (DynaMoS): DynaMoS Science Bag S/N 004 was retrieved and inserted into MELFI 1. DynaMoS examines how microgravity affects metabolic interactions in communities of soil microbes. On Earth, communities of microorganisms carry out key functions in soil, including cycling of carbon and other nutrients and support of plant growth. This research focuses on the soil microorganism communities that decompose chitin, the second most abundant carbon polymer on Earth. Results could improve understanding of the function of soil microorganisms in space compared to on Earth.
GRIP: GRIP science tasks in the seated and supine positions were performed. The GRIP experiment studies long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements such as oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
Systems:
Japanese Excursion Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Backup Drive System (BDS) Checkout: The crew connected the BDS Cable 1 to Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) b2 and activated the Backup Controller (BUC). A BDS checkout was performed, after which the BDS Cable 10 was connected to the original position for JEMRMS nominal operations. The JEMRMS BDS provides redundancy for the zero fault tolerant, single-string JEMRMS. This redundancy is essential if the arm becomes stranded due to hardware failure and in some cases a stranded arm could become a collision hazard if it is close enough to structure and subject to certain loads. 
Brine Processor Bladder Changeout: As part of regular maintenance, the crew completed a BPA bladder changeout. The BPA utilizes the forced convection of dry spacecraft cabin air coupled with a robust membrane distillation process to recover water from brine. The added water recovery from brine contributes directly to NASA’s goal to achieve an overall water recovery rate of 89% for future water recovery systems.

