
Soyuz 48S Launch:  48S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at GMT 293/08:05:14.378, carrying Expedition 49 crewmembers Shane Kimbrough, Andrei Borisenko, and Sergey Ryzhikov to the ISS.  Vehicle experienced a nominal ascent and all solar arrays and antennas successfully deployed. The Soyuz will perform a 34-orbit rendezvous before docking with the ISS on Friday, October 21 at 9:59 am GMT.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Remove and Replace (R&R): FE-6 disconnected the water umbilicals at the CIR Z-Panel, removing water pressure from the rack.  The crew then accessed and changed out the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Supply and Return hoses.  Last week the rack was connected to the Vacuum Exhaust System to remove the water from within the CIR.  Today’s hose changeouts will enable the resumption of FLame Extinguishment-2 (FLEX-2) operations using a decane fuel and will position CIR for implementation of the Cool Flames Investigation (CFI) arriving on OA-5. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning.  The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels. CFI provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out — but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Ethernet Hub Unit Installation:  FE-6 installed the JEM Ethernet Hub Unit and connect Ethernet and power cables earlier today.  This will provide new capability of a redundant data line for the Medium Rate Data Link (MRDL).

