
68 Progress (68P) docking:  Saturday morning, 68P launched from Baikonur after a two day delay.  This morning, 68P docked successfully to DC1 nadir, bringing supplies to the ISS.
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) #13 Installation:  Following the docking of 68P,  a crewmember stowed two canister bags containing protein samples in the JAXA Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle 2 (J-FROST2). This experiment will run from today through removal for return on Soyuz 51S.  The canisters contain protein samples prepared by Japanese and Russian researchers from universities, national research institutes, and the private sector. The purpose of this activity is to obtain high quality protein crystals in the microgravity environment at 20 degrees C for about 9 weeks. The results obtained by JAXA PCG #13 contribute to the development of drugs for multidrug-resistant bacteria, Alzheimer’s disease, muscular dystrophy and periodontitis. They will also aid in the development of a blood substitute and biosensor. 
Advanced Nano Step Microgravity Measurements Apparatus (MMA) Cable Connection: After successfully adjusting the position of the cell stage to resolve movement issues during sample observations last week; today the MMA cable connection to the medical laptop was completed to measure MMA data during the Advanced Nano Step experiment run.  JAXA’s Advanced Nano Step experiment investigates the relationship between impurity incorporation mechanisms and the quality of obtained protein crystals should be clarified for the progress to an “advanced” stage of the space utilization for structure-based drug design. In this mission, we observe the protein crystal growth surfaces of glucose isomerase crystals in space in the presence of various impurities with the use of a Michelson interferometer. In addition, we also clarify the crystal surface morphology on the molecular step level by using the laser confocal microscope. We evaluate the crystal quality of the returned crystals.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): Today a 52S crewmember completed Flight Day (FD) 30 urine sample collections that began yesterday and blood sample collections in support of the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples are obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Fine Motor Skills (FMS): A 51S crewmember completed a Flight Day 80 FMS session, where the subject performs a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
USOS Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA) #46 Preparations:  Today the crew configured tools, reviewed EVA procedures, and conducted a conference with ground specialists in preparation for next week’s EVA. The goals of USOS EVA #46 include Removal and Replacement (R&R) of the degraded CP13 camera and R&R of the Latching End Effector (LEE) A Camera Lens Assembly (CLA).

