
Plant Gravity Sensing 2 (PGS2) Run 1:  Following up on Lindgren’s treatment yesterday of the growing plants with a chemical reagent that induces a bioluminescence response, today Yui removed the reagent with an absorbent and placed them in a Photon Counting Unit (PCU).  Photon measurements will be taken over the next 24 hours.  Lindgren noted yesterday that one of the four culture dishes was contaminated and, after coordination with ground experts, he discarded that dish.  Plant calcium concentrations have been shown to change in response to the direction of gravity:  the treated plants will emit photons when the culture dishes they are growing in are rotated so that they are “upside down.”  The PGS2 investigation supports the study of cellular formation of the plant’s gravity sensors and the molecular mechanism for gravity sensing in plants grown in microgravity conditions.
 
MAGVECTOR:  Today Lindgren completed the sixth run of the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) MAGVECTOR experiment begun last Friday, October 9th, by transferring data from a jump drive to a Station Support Computer (SSC).  MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the ram and wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research.
 
SOLAR:  Measurements continue to be taken for European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) SOLAR investigation during the current sun visibility window which is open from October 9th to October 19th.  The goal of the SOLAR instruments is to measure solar spectral irradiance and variability.
 
Journals:  Kelly made Journals entries today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Space Headaches: Yui answered his weekly Space Headaches questionnaire today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Lindgren and Kelly obtained body measurements on each other as part of Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-Orbit Fit Verification (OFV).  The measurements will be used to confirm the correct sizing of the EMU suits prior to going EVA on October 28th.  In addition, they installed Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA) on EMU suits 3003 and 3010.  Once installed, they performed a checkout to verify the EMU Glove heaters were functional and helmet cameras were receiving power.   Lastly, Lindgren replaced the gas trap on EMU 3010.
 
Ocular Health:  Yui and Lindgren executed their Medical Operations Flight Day 90 (FD90) Ocular Health activities with Kelly’s assistance.  Both performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and fundoscope measurements with Kelly as operator.
 

