
USOS Microorganisms ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Deferral: Following the MLM radiator coolant leak and the resulting change in the environment around the ISS, the Microorganisms EVA was deferred from last Thursday, October 12th to this Thursday, October 19th. However, ground specialists continue to assess the external environment and need more time to determine possible contamination concerns if the crew goes EVA. As a result, flight teams have deferred the Microorganisms EVA again, with the new date to be reevaluated this week. The USOS Radio Frequency Groups (RFG) EVA will remain on the timeline to be completed on Monday, October 30th.
Payloads:
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew gained access to the ELF internal experiment volume, removed the sample holder with processed samples, and replaced it with a new sample holder. They also exchanged a gas bottle used to support experiment operations. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack-2 (MSPR-2).
Systems:
X2R22 Software Transition: The ground team completed the X2R22 software updates onboard the ISS. The X2R22 transition was performed to reimage the Portable Computer System (PCS) hard drives for updated Command and Control of the ISS. Throughout the software transition, the crew supported ground operations by performing various PCS reconnection activities.
Visiting Vehicle Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until December before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. The crew also began cargo prepack operations in preparation for the arrival of the SpX-29 cargo vehicle. SpX-29 is planned to arrive in early November and remain at the space station for 30 days before returning safely to Earth.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3003 and 3009. Conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooping loop following the 70-minute scrub. Finally, crew terminated, deconfigured, and checked out the EMUs. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
UTS Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of the urine flow from the Toilet System and the Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
