
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts): Following yesterday’s Dilution Measurements, today, FE-5 performed Day 2 of his final Fluid Shifts collection.  With assistance from FE-6, the crew performed various collections and measurements including Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Tonometry, and Ultrasounds.  Today’s sessions will conclude FE-5’s Fluid Shift activities, as the crew will not be performing Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) measurements or Chibis/Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) measurements.  The CCFP measurement device was returned on SpaceX-9 for failure analysis, and due to the shortened 47S increment duration, it was determined that the LBNP would not be required.  Both instances of science loss were reviewed and accepted by the payload teams.  Fluid Shifts investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage. 
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit:  FE-5 completed an audit of the PEPS hardware in the FGB, Lab, Node 2, Japanese Pressurized Module (JPM), Japanese Logistics Platform (JLP), and Columbus (COL) locations this morning.  The PEPS audit is performed to verify Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit (EHTK), the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Mask are all free of damage to ensure functionality. The Audit also includes a Mask Harness Inspection. The audit is to be performed once every 365 days. For an audit the crew will also record the hardware serial numbers or barcodes, and locations. This information is needed to track shelf life and life cycles on the hardware.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Chamber Dryout:  Following maintenance of MDCA in September, it was discovered that some water leaked into the CIR from the Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) due to a damaged Quick Disconnect (QD).  The Vacuum Exhaust System (VES) is being used for vaporizing any water present.  Today, prior to CIR activation the Rack Flow Control Assembly (RFCA) valve was commanded to open. However, no coolant flow was recorded. The crew confirmed that the TCS return and supply QDs were not connected to the CIR rack Z-panel.  The crew reconnected both QDs and flow was established.   The venting will continue for the next 32 hours.

