
63 Progress (63P) Undock: 63P undocked successfully from the Service Module (SM) aft port this morning at 4:37 AM CDT. Deorbit burn was completed at 7:50 AM CDT followed by atmospheric entry and destruction. 
Vascular Echo Resting Ultrasound: FE-5 performed Vascular Echo resting ultrasound and blood pressure measurements this morning.  With assistance from ground remote guidance teams, he was directed to scan the neck, thigh and heart.  This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone.
Blood Collections:  FE-6, with assistance from FE-5, performed blood collections in support of several Human Research Experiments.  Samples were collected, spun in the refrigerated centrifuge and placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for the Biochemical Profile, CardioOx, and Repository experiments. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health. Repository is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

