ISS On-Orbit Status 10/18/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After wakeup, FE-4 Malenchenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
Yuri also completed the periodic (daily) reboot of the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops.
 
CDR Williams &amp; FE-6 Hoshide started the day with another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, Suni’s 31<sup>st</sup>, Aki’s 32<sup>nd</sup>.       [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Wearing “mess-up” mitts, safety goggles &amp; dust mask, Sunita Williams worked in Node-3 on the WRS-2 (Water Recovery System) Rack 2, replacing the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly)’s full RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) #2 with a new unit (#1) retrieved from PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) stowage and temporarily stowed RFTA #2 for subsequent draining. 
 
As next step, Suni used the Russian pumping equipment with electric-powered compressor to pump urine from an EDV-U into the new RFTA, with MCC-H monitoring WSTA/Waste Storage Tank Assembly quantity between compressor cycles. The depress hose along with the tank’s vent adapter were then removed for nominal UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) processing and returned to stowage.
 
Afterwards, Suni dumped the brine from the removed RFTA into an EDV container for disposal.
 
Aki Hoshide terminated his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the ESA/German experiment CRHYT (Circadian Rhythms), started on 10/16, de-instrumenting himself by removing the Thermolab double sensors and belt-worn Thermolab control unit, then cleaned the sensors and stowed the equipment.      [The main objective of the experiment is to get a better basic understanding of any alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights.  Such knowledge will not only provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.  The Circadian Rhythms experiment is performed over 3 days (from Day 1 to Day 3) and involves:  Instrumentation (Day 1); 36-hrs continuous measurement (Day 1 + 2 + 3), and De-instrumentation (Day 3).  On-orbit measurements are planned for FD 15, FD30 and then at 30 day intervals until return.  During day 1, the instrumentation is performed late in the afternoon. This consists of donning the Thermolab Double Sensors at the forehead and sternum positions. By powering on the Thermolab Control Unit the 36 hours measurement is started.  During day 2, the Thermolab Control Unit will measure throughout the day. No interaction is required other than confirming the Thermolab Control Unit is measuring by checking the display from time to time.
 
Later, Akihiko worked in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) on the MSPR (Multipurpose Small Payload Rack), going through a pre-experiment reconfiguration of the new JAXA AQH (Aquatic Habitat) payload after the recent ground-controlled functional checkout.      [FE-6 assembled the air pump, ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) Housing &amp; Aquariums on the Water Circulation Unit and activated the MSPR components VRU (Video Compression &amp; Recording Unit), MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter), Hub, AQH Control and ELT (Experiment Laptop Terminal). The Water Circulation Unit was then supplied with water, and the Gas Exchanger attached. Before sleeptime, the MSPR/AQH components were deactivated.   Background: The JAXA AQH is a closed-water circulatory system, which provides a new facility option ISS-based research. Scientists will use the habitat to study small, freshwater fish on orbit. For the first investigations, they plan to examine the Medaka fish (Oryzias latipes), looking at the impacts of radiation, bone degradation, muscle atrophy, and developmental biology. The investigations could last up to 90 days and provide data that may lead to a better understanding of related human health concerns here on Earth. Medaka fish are ideal specimens for many reasons. They are transparent, making it easy to view the inner workings of their organs. They also breed quickly and easily in micro-G environments, enabling multi-generation studies. Researchers can take advantage of a variety of genetic modifications to these fish, as well. Also, scientists already have all of the Medaka genome identified, which makes it easier to recognize any alterations to the fishes’ genes, due to factors like space radiation.]
 
In Node-2, the CDR set the SSC-21 (Station Support Computer 21) laptop in the Port CQ (Crew Quarters) &amp; the SSC-19 laptop in the Overhead CQ to wireless to enable their re-configuring by the ground for the Soyuz 32S crew.
 
Yuri Malenchenko supported the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in the MRM1 Rassvet module by downloading the new batch of structural dynamics measurements of the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer to the RSE1 laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via RSPI (High-speed Data Transmission Radio Link).       [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104], and
 
Afterwards, Yuri performed IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the KOB2 (SM Internal Thermal Loop 2), removing &amp; replacing the 4SPN2 replaceable pump panel with a spare.
 
FE-4 also verified proper function of the deployed Russian “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2) radiation detectors by taking readings and checking date/time from the LULIN-5 electronics box located in the MRM1 near the spherical “phantom”.     [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (dosimeters A41, A42, A43, A44, A45, A46, A47, A48) are deployed in the RS). The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.]
 
In preparation for the upcoming EVA-20, Sunita Williams initiated recharge of the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) Li-Ion LLBs (Long Life Batteries) 3004 &amp; 3005.
 
Suni &amp; Aki undertook a training/refresher session dealing with proper NH<sub>3</sub> (Ammonia) leak contamination response.     [One of the EVA objectives concerns power channel 2B and the ammonia leak in the P6 truss. The data shows the leak in the loop has accelerated, and that channel could be off-line by the end of the year if the leak trend continues.]
 
Malenchenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Yuri also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance from the discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
With VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) aimed toward the D1 rack in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and activated, Sunita replaced the CCF (Centralized Cabin Filter) with a new spare as a preventive IFM.
 
Working on the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System), Williams removed the broken TFM (Turbine Flow Meter) insert from the PFM/PAM (Pulmonary Function Module/Photoacoustic Analyzer Module), removed a spacer from the insert, and re-assembled the PFM/PAM turbine flow meter with the PPFS TFM insert.
 
Using the Russian pumping equipment, CDR Williams started the periodic water transfer from the yesterday-degassed CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) Potable Water Storage Tank via “tee” hose and a freshly installed MRF (Microbial Removal Filter) cartridge as gas trap.     [During the day, with MCC-H monitoring, Suni checked transfer progress and purged gas from the MRF, as required, to allow water to flow from CWC-I to the Potable Water tank.]
 
CDR Williams had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in her electronic Journal on the personal SSC.   [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep (~3:40pm), Sunita will power up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Suni turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
At ~8:25am EDT, FE-6 Akihiko Hoshide supported a PAO TV downlink, addressing Dentsu / Google+ “Hangout” with Astronaut Soichi Noguchi and 7 Japanese Google+“Hangout” participants.
 
At ~12:40pm, FE-4 Malenchenko supported a Russian PAO TV downlink, extending a message of greetings &amp; congratulations to A.R. Kotovskaya.        [On 10/22, Adilya Ravgatovna Kotovskaya, Head of the Physiology of Acceleration Lab at RF State Scientific Centers-IBMP, a Doctor of Medical sciences and Professor, will be celebrating her anniversary.  Studies of impacts of space flight acceleration on human body and animals, and also development and assessment of anti-G protection equipment  for cosmonauts have been taking and still continue to take a center stage in the scientific research of A. R. Kotovskaya. The results of these studies have made a significant contribution to understanding of functional changes occurring in a body under the effects G-forces during active flight stage, and quite difficult and important landing stage followed after staying in zero gravity.] 
 
The crew worked out on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4/2x), and T2/COLBRT advanced treadmill (CDR).      [CDR &amp; FE-6 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Suni on Friday, for Aki on Thursday.  If any day is not completed, Suni &amp; Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day. Suni’s protocol for today showed T2 (int., 4 min.). Aki’s protocol for today showed none.]
 
Tasks listed for FE-4 Malenchenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U (Photo Image Coordinate Reference System) to record target sites on the Earth surface.</li></ul> 


