
Payloads
Food Physiology: The crew performed the Saliva collection setup. The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
VECTION: The crew deployed the VECTION hardware and performed a session. The crew then stowed all VECTION hardware and prepared the recorded data for download. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): The crew retrieved eleven deployed dosimeters  (ten Passive Detector Packs and one Triple Detector Pack) and stowed them for return and deployed eleven new dosimeters. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices.
Multi-use Variable-g Platform (MVP): The crew installed new modules into the Multi-use Variable-g Platform. The commercially developed, owned and operated Techshot MVP includes two internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity. MVP is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.
STaARS BioScience-12: The crew stowed the experiment containers in the Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) facility. Novel Protein Aggregation/degradation Studies in the Unique ISS Environment Provide Mechanistic Insights Relevant to Biopharmaceutical Development and Degenerative Diseases (STaARS BioScience-12) examines protein folding and aggregation under the unique stresses of space, including microgravity- and cosmic radiation-dependent folding and degradation and the combination of these factors. Biopharmaceuticals play a significant role in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of human diseases, but a challenge in making them is the instability and degradation of their proteins. This investigation may help develop new strategies to prevent protein degradation and support design of therapeutic biopharmaceuticals.
Systems
ISS Medical Accessory Kit (IMAK) Unpack: Today, the crew unpacked the IMAK kits delivered on Northrop Grumman (NG)-14.  The unpack included a resupply of seven ISS Medical Kits, two Ammonia Response Medical Kits, and one Vascular Contingency IMAK.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Port Cleaning: In preparation for their return to Earth next week, the 62S crew cleaned the Port CQ today. During this activity, the crew cleaned behind panels, intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors as required.
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: All six crewmembers participated in this required training. Some of the topics covered were crew accountability during emergency situations, escape vehicle readiness, ISS Commander responsibilities and safe haven plan.

