
Human Research Facility (HRF) Ultrasound Status: Over the weekend ground teams and the crew were able to successfully troubleshoot the data files on the HRF Ultrasound and to upgrade the backup unit.  The data files for the CDR were downlinked and evaluated by specialists, and a repeat of the Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging is not required.  Software was successfully loaded on the backup Ultrasound machine, and that unit is now available to be used for FE-5’s Baseline Imaging scheduled for Wednesday.
Astronaut’s Energy Requirement for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): On Sunday, FE-5 completed the 11-day Energy experiment.   FE-6 also provided a urine sample for the investigation. The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Astronauts often lose body mass with extended stays in space for reasons that remain unclear, although increased exercise as a microgravity countermeasure may be a factor. Knowing details of astronaut metabolism and activity, combined with other conditions, will help ensure that crews are properly nourished on long missions.
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements: FE-5, with blood draw assistance from FE-6, performed the first part of the USOS Fluid Shift activities – Dilution Measurement. Upon wakeup FE-5 collected saliva, blood and urine and inserted them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer.  Throughout the day, he performed more urine, blood, and saliva collections, inserting those samples into MELFI as well. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit:  FE-6 completed the audit of the PEPS hardware in the N1, N3, PMM and A/L locations this morning.  The PEPS audit is performed to verify Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit (EHTK), the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Mask are all free of damage to ensure functionality. The Audit also includes a Mask Harness Inspection. The audit is to be performed once every 365 days. For an audit the crew will also record the hardware serial numbers or barcodes, and locations. This information is needed to track shelf life and life cycles on the hardware. 
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On-Board Training (OBT):  FE-6 completed her CMO OBT session earlier today. These lessons provide a refresher course and cover some of the equipment and procedures that are taught in the CMO classes prior to launch. The lessons include text, pictures, and video detailing previously learned medical procedures and hardware. The lesson content is designed to promote crewmember proficiency and knowledge of the Health Maintenance System, as well as advanced life support procedures during long duration missions. 

