
Cygnus Onboard Training Sessions:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg have taken part in onboard training sessions to gain proficiency on the Cygnus departure profile, procedures, and the crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding Cygnus. Unberth from ISS is scheduled for 05:00am CDT Tuesday, 22 October.
Spinal Ultrasound Scan Operations: Nyberg performed her third and final Spinal Ultrasound Scan session prior to her return in November. FE-3 Hopkins supported this session as the operator with guidance from ground specialist. This investigation aims to characterize microgravity-associated spinal alterations during and after spaceflight using in-flight ultrasound. Results from this research will provide data to enhance crew health for long duration space missions.
Biolab Microscope Cassette Checkout and Troubleshooting: Parmitano performed steps to isolate the root cause of problems with the cassette that were experienced during prior testing of the Biolab microscope.  Preliminary indications are that the troubleshooting was fully successful in identifying the root cause of the issue.  The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in ESA’s Columbus laboratory used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab will allow scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Cygnus Cargo Operations: Hopkins and Nyberg performed the final loading of disposal items into the Cygnus spacecraft. Cygnus will be disposing more than 1305 kg of trash when it departs on Tuesday, 22 October. Destructive re-entry will occur on Wednesday, 23 October.
Command and Data Handling (C&DH) 1553 Data Bus Checkout:  Ground operators successfully performed a checkout of redundant channels for each 1553 data bus connected to ISS Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs).  As part of this checkout, each of the 1553 buses were swapped to channel B and remained in that configuration for 7.5 hours to ensure that no unexpected communication errors were experienced. The 1553 redundant buss checkout is performed every 6 months.

