
Analog-1: As part of the preparation for the Analong-1 investigation, which arrives later, the crew performed a software load on the appropriate computer.  Space is such a harsh place for humans and machines that future exploration of the Solar System may involve sending robotic explorers to “test the waters” on uncharted planets before sending humans.  The parent METERON project is a European initiative to help prepare for future human-robotic exploration missions to the Moon, Mars, and other celestial bodies. The project is organized around a series of experiments as preparatory steps towards gaining the experience needed, through adaptation of the traditional ways of working, to effectively and efficiently support operations of human and robotic combined elements on a planetary surface. 
BEST (Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology) sample transfer/FE3:  The crew performed the routine cell maintenance activities for the on-going BEST experiment 2.  These activities involve cell transfer, cell culture media exchange, etc.  The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM contact with Science & Technologie, Teningen, Germany.  Some of the questions from the students included: if astronauts ever lose items on the ISS, what the crew thinks about space tourism, and how the crew handles salary and taxes while in space.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
MGC (Microgravity Crystals): The crew performed the final microscope observations for the set C group of crystals.  MCG sessions are 28 days in length and the crew uses a microscope to periodically observe the crystal evolution in various conditions during this time.  The Microgravity Crystals investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects. 
Veg-04B: The crew performed a root mat water fill and routine plant check.  With earlier versions of the Veggie experiments, the root mat is typically filled when the experiment is initiated.  Based on observations of water management in these earlier experiments, Veg-04B is using the delayed root mat fill to allow the seedlings to first develop root structure before the plant pillows are exposed to the wetted root mat.  The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.  A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight.
Systems: 
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Charging Discharging Unit (BCDU) 2B2 Replacement (USOS EVA#58) Preparations: Over the past weekend when activating the new Li-Ion 2B2 battery BCDU, the converter close command failed; ground teams have determined that performing an EVA to replace the failed BCDU with a new spare will restore full functionality to the Channel 2B. Today’s EVA preparations included a tool audit and procedure reviews.  USOS EVA#58, planned for tomorrow October 18, has the goal to remove the failed Channel 2B BDCU and replace it with a new spare that is currently stored on the Express Logistics Carrier (ELC) #1.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Inflight Maintenance: Today’s WHC IFM included the remove and replace of the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter as well as a visual inspection of pre-treat and water lines.  The Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter replacement is part of regular preventative maintenance that occurs every 36 days.
Water Storage System (WSS) Maintenance:  Today, the ISS crew performed a change out of the Water Resupply Tank installed in slot 2 and installed a new tank in slot 4 of the Water Storage System (WSS). These new water tanks recently arrived on HTV8.
Mobile Support System Operations:  Last night, Robotic Ground Controllers commanded the Mobile Transporter (MT) to translate from Worksite 2 to Worksite 7.  Following several maneuvers, the SSRMS was place in the start position for the Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU) 2B2 Remove and Replace EVA scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, October 17.

