
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): CIPHER Sample Collections and tests were completed. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1): Missing lid latch components were recovered and Foreign Object Debris (FOD) was removed from the HRF-1 Centrifuge Chamber. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Covenant Christian Academy in West Peabody, MA.  Some of the questions asked by the students included what happens to the trash generated on the ISS, if time is perceived differently by the crew on ISS, and what happens when someone gets sick on the ISS.  Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Plant Habitat: The CO2 system bottles and hose Quick Disconnects (QDs) were tested for leaks, and good pressure was verified in the system.  This was performed to resolve CO2 control issues seen during the Plant Habitat-03B experiment. The Advanced Plant Habitat (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that is used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack and one powered International Subrack Interface Standard (ISIS) drawer, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Systems:
X2R22 Software Transition Day 1: The ground team began the X2R22 software updates onboard the ISS following the software uplink on Wednesday. The X2R22 transition will reimage the PCS hard drives for updated Command and Control of the ISS. Throughout the software transition, the crew will support by performing various Portable Computer System (PCS) reconnection activities. This transition is expected to last until Monday, October 16th.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sampling: The crew performed sampling of ITCS fluid for eventual return to the ground for study. Samples were taken in the Columbus module, the JEM, the Lab, the Node 2 Low Temperature Loop (LTL), the Node 2 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL), and Node 3. These samples will fly back down with SpX-29 when it undocks in December. ITCS provides equipment cooling, and heat rejection through a combination of water loops, and interface heat exchangers inside of the ISS. 
Internal Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) Firmware Update: The crew performed equipment gathering and worked through procedures to update the Node 1 IWIS RSU 1035 and the FGB IWIS RSU 1040. This updated reloaded the firmware on the two IWIS RSUs using an SSC laptop and an IWIS programming cable in order to address firmware corruption. 
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until December before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
