
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #2 (US EVA#57) Preparations: Today, the ISS crew completed multiple road-to activities in preparation for the P6 Battery EVA that is planned for Friday, October 11.  The P6 Battery EVA#2 will focus on upgrading the Solar Array Channel 2B with a third and final Li-Ion battery.  Today’s preparations included the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) installation and checkout as well as preparing the Equipment Lock and Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) suits. Other activities included participating in a EVA procedure conference and a tool audit.
Remote Power Control Module Replacement (RPCM):  Today, the ISS crew completed the replacement of a failed RPCM located in the Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA)/Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Thermal Control System (TCS) Rack that failed on October 5, which will restore full functionally to the CCAA system.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) operations: Yesterday, the Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) arms to remove the two Robo Micro-Conical Tools (RMCT) from the SPDMs Tool Holster Assembly (THA) in preparation for the upcoming S34B-E Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) replacement.
Payloads:   
BEST (Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology): The crew transferred BEST Cell samples into the new Media Tubes using pipettes. The Tubes will be temp stowed for 5-10 days. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew performed measurements using the Cardiolab Portable Doppler unit and the Blood Pressure device. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space.
Microgravity Crystals (MGC): The crew removed the Microgravity Crystals samples Plate Set C, session 5 from Cold Stowage as part of Day 20 sample observations and photography using the microscope. Samples were returned to Cold stowage. The Microgravity Crystals investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects.

