
Ocular Health (OH) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT):   Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg and FE-3 Hopkins set up associated Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Infrared (IR) hardware and took turns as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and subject, performing the eye examination portion of OCT Functional Checkout with the ground experts providing remote guidance.  The OCT testing will be used to determine whether the unmodified, commercially available device can operate effectively in the ISS.
Blood Pressure Regulation (BP Reg) Experiment:  FE-5 Parmitano reviewed a session overview and related procedures, and then set up hardware to support the leg cuff and rebreathing protocol for the Canadian Space Agency BP Reg experiment.  BP Reg tests the efficacy of an in-flight manipulation of arterial blood pressure as an indicator of post-flight response to a brief stand test. Space flight negatively impacts the regulation of BP on return to an upright posture on earth.  This experiment has potential application for the general population, where dizziness and fainting (syncope) are major health problems accounting for 1-3% of visits to hospital emergency rooms. These problems become especially important for elderly, where falling is a major contributor to bone fracture. A better understanding of the mechanisms responsible for fainting could reduce risk of injury.
Reconfiguration of Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Imaging for Observation of Cool Flame Phenomena: Hopkins reconfigured the CIR Imaging capabilities by changing a filter in the CIR Optics Bench.  This change will allow viewing of the cool flame phenomenon during combustion of alkane fuel droplets in the upcoming Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Flame Extinguishment (FLEX) experiment.  There are potential applications from this investigation to advanced low temperature combustion engines, fuel reforming and new burner technologies, and improvements in fire safety in space vehicles.
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Operations:  Parmitano took measurements of the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS. The data was then transferred to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink to the ground.

