
USOS MicroOrganisms ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Deferral: Due to Monday’s MLM radiator coolant leak, the USOS Microorganisms EVA was deferred. NASA engineering and flight control teams are continuing to review data and video associated with the leak and the spacewalk is postponed until the review is complete.
Payloads:
Education Payload Operations (ESA-EPO): Video was recorded in support of the EPO Mogensen – Astronaut Logbook & Humans in Space Exhibition Day 3: How I view Earth. ESA’s ISS Education Program makes use of human spaceflight and the ISS as a means to capture the attention and the interest of students, to attract them to study, in particular, scientific, and technical disciplines, and to appreciate and understand the benefits, challenges, importance of space for Europe, and as a member of a global economy.
Food Processor: Questionnaire data from GMT 262 was transferred and re-downlinked to the ground from the EveryWear Application. The objective of the Advanced System for Space Food (Food Processor) investigation on board the ISS is to test a prototype equipment demonstrator with one specific recipe that uses basic cooking functions (i.e. beating egg whites, mixing products). The fully functional future version of the Food Processor equipment provides extra capability to weigh, mix, knead, heat, dry, cook, color, and rehydrate, and will be developed and available for future exploration missions.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Sekolah Kebangsaan Wangsa Maju Seksyen 2 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): The In-flight Microbiology Water sample from GMT 282 was analyzed after 44hrs of incubation. An on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Systems:
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle, loading items like common trash for disposal. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until next month before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
X2R22 Software Transition Day 0: The ground team started the file upload for the upcoming X2R22 software transition. The X2R22 transition will reimage the PCS hard drives for updated Command and Control for the ISS. This transition is expected to last until Monday, October 16th.
Node 3 Aft Port Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan Cleaning: Today, the crew performed a cleaning of the Node 3 Aft Port IMV fan and silencer inlets in order to improve airflow into BEAM. The IMV system consists primarily of a number of valves, fans, and air ducts which circulate air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that excessive moisture, heat, particulates, metabolic products, and contaminants can be removed from the atmosphere, smoke detection can be performed, and a homogenous conditioned atmospheric composition is maintained throughout the ISS.
MicroOrganisms EVA Procedure Conference: In preparation for the upcoming MicroOrganisms EVA, the crew completed EVA procedure reviews and conference. The MicroOrganisms EVA has been deferred to a later date to give ground teams more time to assess impacts due to the MLM coolant leak.
