
Body Measures:  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins with operator assistance from FE-6 Nyberg, set up cameras and cabin video, performed body marker instrumentation, and collected calibration and body pose photos and circumference measurements.  It is anticipated that body measurements will change due to microgravity and fluid shifts. The goal of this study is to gather preliminary data to better understand the magnitude and variability of these changes. This data is important to be able to determine the changes that may occur during long-duration space flight and to be able to apply the changes to suit fit, suit sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time for altering or adjusting their suits, workstation, etc. to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope: FE-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg continued their three day series of activities performed in support of the Ocular Health payload.  This series will complete their Return-minus-30-day session and final session.  Alternating as a Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and as a subject, Parmitano and Nyberg performed a vision test with medical ground support that was postponed yesterday due to a laptop resolution issue. They then completed Fundoscope eye examinations of each other after administering drops for pupil dilation. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Reconfiguration of the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) for the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA)  Flame Extinguishment  (FLEX) Experiment:  FE-5 Parmitano replaced MDCA Igniter Tip hardware in the MDCA to support operation of the FLEX experiment.  FLEX uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will provide insight into how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Cygnus Cargo Operations: FE-6 Nyberg continued cargo operations in Cygnus, stowing hardware for disposal in the vehicle. The Cygnus vehicle is scheduled to be unberthed and released from the ISS on Tuesday, October 22nd. The Cygnus vehicle does not return cargo to the ground, but will burn up in the Earth’s atmosphere upon re-entry.

