ISS On-Orbit Status 10/14/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       
 
FE-4 Sergey Volkov performed the routine checkup of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Also during the morning Inspection, Sergey conducted the routine checkup of the circuit breakers &amp; fuses in the MRM1 Rassvet &amp; MRM2 Poisk modules.      [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 &amp; MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &amp; BPP-36.  MRM2 &amp; MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.]
 
Afterwards, with STTS communication systems temporarily configured for crew presence in the MRM2, Sergey set up &amp; conducted yet another active session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), supported by ground specialist tagup.  STTS was then reconfigured to nominal.  Volkov later adjusted the two SONY HVR-Z1J video camcorders for replaying and downlinking their recorded footage via VHF over two RGS (Russian Groundsites) at 11:23am-11:48am EDT and at 12:58pm-1:22pm, followed by disassembly of the equipment.          [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
Mike Fossum conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.       [The new card (29-0002C) lists 116 good CWCs (2,635.5 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (30 CWCs with 1,229.2 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 942.9 L in 24 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 129 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. Iodinated water (74 CWCs with 1,333.6 L (also 33 expired bags with 603.2 L);  4. condensate water (35.7 L in 4 bags, plus 6 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (37.0 L in 2 CWCs, incl. 20.2 L from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
FE-5 Satoshi Furukawa turned on MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) routing and started the playback to the ground of the recorded recent LEGO Bricks demo for JAXA’s EPO (Educational Payload Operations) program.
 
In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Furukawa worked several hours on WOOVs (Water On/Off Valves), performing inspection, cleaning, disinfection and encapsulation on WOOV 3, 4 &amp; 5.
 
Afterwards, FE-5 Satoshi readied the JAXA SSHDTV (Super Sensitive High-Definition Television) camera in the Node-3 Cupola and started another SSHDTV camera session, recording night views over Japan.  The SSHDTV was then returned to and installed in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).
 
Mike Fossum performed routine service on the WRS (Water Recovery System) using the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump) to transfer one CWC-I (-Iodine) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) and offloading it, using a particulate filter.      [Estimated offload time: ~3.6 hrs; max. allowed quantity: 87%].
 
Later, after Satoshi Furukawa had disconnected the ERB2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular), the CDR initiated charging on 2 camcorder batteries for later use in ERB2 and stowed them temporarily in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory).         [ERB uses a three-dimensional (3-D) video camera, the Sony DSR PD150P camcorder and a Nikon SSM-3DC-101 3D photo camera for taking imagery of the environment onboard the ISS for an accurate map of the station’s interior.  The images are transferred by a computer application into a 3D model to be viewed in the Virtual Reality Theater of ESA’s Erasmus Center.]
 
After midday meal, after a review of procedures, Fossum spent several hours in Kibo, building cabling for JAXA’s ICS (Inter-Satellite Communication System) with the G1 video camcorder set up for monitoring.        [The ICS - PM experienced a short on 7/31, tripping the RPC-5 (Remote Power Controller 5) of the JPM PDU a1 (Power Distribution Unit a1), which feeds power to the ICS rack.  Part 1 of the troubleshooting, on 8/10, determined that the ICS system itself is the source of the issue and not the rack.  Subsequently, Part 2, on 8/12, was to locate the shorted circuit in the power feed path from PDU a1 to the JPM ICS Rack, using the Multimeter instrument to check continuity (measuring resistances) in order to find short circuits in the cable.  ICS – PM has been shut down due to possible short circuit inside the IP-PCDU (ICS-PM Power Control &amp; Distribution Unit) and MUX (Data Multiplexer).  The new cabling is intended to eliminate the short circuit.]
 
Sergey Volkov had another ~2.5 hrs reserved to continue transferring excessed equipment and waste to the Progress M-10M/42P cargo ship-turned-trash can, to be jettisoned for destructive reentry on 10/29.
 
Sergey also completed the daily inspection of the recently activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, verifying proper watering of the KM A32 &amp; A24 root modules.        [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
Later, FE-4 performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.        [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Satoshi opened the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, so ground images could be captured today by ground commanding.       [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, FE-5 turns on the MPC and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Satoshi will turn MPC routing off again.       [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
At ~4:05am EDT, the three crewmembers held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~7:10am, Sergey Volkov had his regular linkup with TsUP stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~6:55am, Fossum powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 7:00am conducted a ham radio session with students at the Istituto Superiore "G. Curcio", Ispica, Italy.
 
At ~3:20pm, the crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.
 
At ~3:35pm, the Inc-29 crew will hold a 30-min “crew handover” teleconference with the next crew, Burbank, Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin, due to arrive in Soyuz 28S on 11/16.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).   CDR   Mike Fossum is currently following a special experimental “SPRINT” protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5hrs per day regime and introduces special daily sessions.  No exercise will be timelined for Friday.  If any day is not completed, Mike picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
Tasks listed for Sergey Volkov on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Continuing the preparation &amp; downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 


