
Commercial Protein Crystal Growth High Density Modified (CPCG-HM): Gerst reviewed CPCG-HM experiment overview reference file and procedures.  He then deactivated samples, powered down, and placed CPCG-HM inside a Merlin+4 deg C unit for return on Dragon/SpaceX (SpX)-4.  CPCG-HM is a National Laboratory Office experiment that is intended to demonstrate the scientific and commercial value of protein crystallization on a long-duration microgravity mission. This will be accomplished using flight hardware that accommodates high-value proteins whose structures cannot be determined through ground-based methods. Studying protein crystals grown in microgravity could provide useful information in the development of new drugs.
Space Headaches:  Gerst and Wiseman completed Space Headaches questionnaires. The objectives for this study are to obtain in-flight data allowing evaluation of the prevalence and characteristics of headache in microgravity. 
Nanoracks Module 19:  Gerst performed microscope analysis of the Crystal Plates contained in NanoRacks Module-19 after several days of crystal growth.  The Crew uses the Reflective Microscope (Module-12) to take photos of the Crystal Plates located in NanoRacks Module-19 Crystal Plate Frames.
Seedling Growth-2:  Gerst reviewed overview materials and then replaced experiment containers (EC) within the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) with new ECs prepared to perform the first Seedling Growth-2 experiment run. Seedling Growth-2 is the second part of the Seedling Growth Experiment series and uses the plant Arabidopsis thaliana to determine the effects of gravity on cellular signaling mechanisms of phototropism and to investigate cell growth and proliferation responses to light stimulation in microgravity conditions.
CASIS PCG-3: Wiseman retrieved two Handheld High Density Protein Crystal Growth (HDPCG) units and relocated samples from the +2 Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) dewar to the -95 MELFI dewar in preparation for return on Dragon/SpX-4. The CASIS PCG-3 investigation focuses on the crystallization of monoclonal antibodies, which are immune cells that can specifically bind to target cells or proteins. The monoclonal antibodies are currently undergoing clinical trials for the treatment of several diseases. High quality crystals can be used by the pharmaceutical industry to determine protein structure, improve drug delivery and drug purification methods and to develop better methods for the storage of biologically active ingredients.
Rodent Research -1: The Crew relocated Rodent Research samples from +4C cold stowage to -95C cold stowage in preparation for retrun on Dragon/SpX-4.
Dragon/SpaceX (SpX)-4 Activities:  Wiseman and Wilmore completed training in preparation for the Dragon/SpX-4 undock planned for Tuesday, October 21.  Wilmore performed some additional Dragon/SpX-4 cargo operations.
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) preparations:  Wilmore started a battery charging cycle and gathered tools and equipment in support of Russian EVA 40.  Imagery of the Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) was taken to allow assessment of the cargo stowage.  The ATV hatch will be closed for the Russian EVA and needs to be in a configuration to allow a manual undocking in the event of a contingency.  Suraev, Samokutyaev and Serova completed a dry run with pressurized Orlan suits.  The crew also installed lights and cameras onto the suits and completed an EVA procedure review.  Russian EVA 40 is scheduled for Wednesday, October 22.
Multifiltration Bed Removal and Replacement (R&R):  Wiseman completed an R&R of the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) multifiltration bed.  The levels of Total Organic Carbon (TOC) measured in recent water samples has been rising indicating that filtration bed is saturated.

