
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures:  A crewmember completed a ROBoT-r research session. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight, and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Bio-Monitor:  A crewmember disconnected the Bio-Monitor Data Unit from the Garment and connected the Data Unit to the Controller to transfer the data for downlink.  Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crew member daily activities.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR):  A crewmember replaced the CIR Manifold #4 Bottle with a new bottle containing 30% C4H10 and 70% N2. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Exploration ECLSS-TOILET:  A crewmember installed the Pretreat Tank and Pretreat Hose onto the newly deployed Toilet system in Node 3. The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system. The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS). The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
Touching Surfaces:  A crewmember touched each Touch Array and reported results via the EveryWear application. Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the International Space Station) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space.  This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS. The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Systems:
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Consolidation: Today, the crew performed stowage consolidation ops in the JEM in order to prepare for the arrival of SpaceX-24 and the accompanying cargo.
Temperature and Humidity (THC) Keep-Out-Zone (KOZ) Clear: After the Safety Video Survey on August 6th, ground teams noticed that there were obstructions in the THC KOZ. Today, the crew worked to clear these obstructions out.
Escort and Familiarize Russian Spaceflight Participants (SFPs) with Cupola: Today, FE-6 worked with the Russian SFPs to familiarize them with the Cupola before filming. SFP-1 Klim Shipenko (director) and SFP-2 Yulia Peresild (actress) are filming scenes on-board the ISS for a movie called The Challenge. The filming will primarily take place on the Russian segment, but a small portion will be filmed on the USOS segment, in the Cupola.

