
Advanced Nano Step Troubleshooting: Today the crew successfully completed troubleshooting operations by retrieving the Advanced Nano Step cartridge from the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) to access and adjust the position of the cell stage, due to movement issues during the sample observation.  JAXA’s Advanced Nano Step experiment investigates the relationship between impurity incorporation mechanisms and the quality of obtained protein crystals should be clarified for the progress to an “advanced” stage of the space utilization for structure-based drug design. In this mission, we observe the protein crystal growth surfaces of glucose isomerase crystals in space in the presence of various impurities with the use of a Michelson interferometer. In addition, we also clarify the crystal surface morphology on the molecular step level by using the laser confocal microscope. We evaluate the crystal quality of the returned crystals. 
Lighting Effects:  A 51S crewmember completed a Visual Performance Test by stowing the hardware in their crewquarters, setting the light to the correct mode, turning all other light sources in the crew quarters off, and performing a Numerical Verification Test and a Color Discrimination Test. The completed tests will be photographed and downlinked. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Hardware Configuration: To prepare for upcoming ACE-T6 operations, the crew configured the back of the optics bench for the LMM upgrades for confocal operations. The Light Microscopy Module (LMM) is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Configuration for Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew continued to conduct ACME insertion configurations that began earlier this week by setting the CIR valve timers to limit fuel and oxygen into the CIR combustion chamber. The crew also removed and replaced a CIR manifold bottle and a CIR absorber cartridge. The ACME investigation is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the CIR. ACME’s primary goal is to improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability. 
Device for the study of Critical Liquids and Crystallization) DECLIC Hose Relocation: Following last month’s hose relocation to troubleshoot the moderate temperature loop (MTL) flow issues to the DECLIC directional solidification insert (DSL), today the crew returned the DECLIC water supply and return hoses from the Lower Control Panel to the Upper Control Panel, and re-connected the GLACIER water supply and return hoses into the Lower Control Panel.  DECLIC is a multi-user facility utilized to study transparent media and their phase transitions in microgravity onboard the International Space Station (ISS). The DSI portion of the DECLIC multi-user facility experiment will study a series of benchmark experiments on transparent alloys that freeze like metals under microgravity onboard the International Space Station (ISS) using SCN (succinonitrile-a transparent organic substance in the liquid state that is used to study the phenomena related to solidification processes) based alloys. The DSI insert will be installed for the second run of the three series of DECLIC experiments.
Space Headaches:  The weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation was completed by the crew.  The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
USOS Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA) #46 Preparations:  Today the crew reviewed preliminary EVA procedures, conducted a conference with ground specialists, and charged batteries in preparation for next week’s EVA. The goals of USOS EVA #46 include Removal and Replacement (R&R) of the degraded CP13 camera and R&R of the Latching End Effector (LEE) A Camera Lens Assembly (CLA).
External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) Maintenance:  Today the crew performed maintenance procedures required to prep an ETVCG for future installation at Camera Port 13 (CP13). The ETVCGs provide external views of the station and provide enhanced situational awareness as well as views of the Earth from space.
Extravehicular Robotic Operations: Last night the ground controllers powered up and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to grapple the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). SPDM Arm2 was used to unstow Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) #2 from the Tool Holster Assembly (THA) and SPDM Arms and Body were configured in preparation for the Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) P12B-B Remove and Replace activity.

