
Payloads:
Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left (CBEF-L) Fastener Photo: The crew took several photos of the head of a fastener that was found in CBEF-L on GMT 265.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment.  By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Freezer/Refrigerator/Incubator Device for Galley and Experimentation (FRIDGE-2) t/s: The crew reconfigured the power source for the FRIDGE-2 unit in order to perform power quality troubleshooting.  Unfortunately, the unit continued to be non-responsive in the alternate power chain configuration and will need to be returned to the ground for repairs.  FRIDGE is a locker-sized unit that provides active temperature control with a range from -20.0°C to +48.0°C. It can accommodate storage of both crew galley items and scientific research samples and can be fully operated and maintained from the ground.
Immersive Exercise: The gathered the appropriate items, performed a set of troubleshooting steps on the Virtual Reality headset, and then attempted an Immersive Exercise session using the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  The Immersive Exercise project focuses on the development of a virtual reality (VR) environment for biking sessions aboard the ISS.   The VR equipment is interfaced with the current bicycle exerciser aboard the ISS, CEVIS, located in the United States “Destiny” Laboratory Module.
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with the Jean Alloitteau School, Vinça, France.  Some of the questions asked by the students included if the crew has noticed any pollution in space, why astronaut suits are always white in color, and how the crew washes their clothes on ISS.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents, and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering, and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
JAXA Video Take 11: Using a JAXA camcorder, the crew recorded a session for a Japanese magazine.  The session included discussions on astronaut experiences, opinions, and observations.  The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Public Relations Activity (JAXA EPO) includes conducting cultural activities such as writing reports about and filming video of activities aboard the International Space Station (ISS). These tools can help inform the public about the importance of the ISS, JAXA’s Kibo module, and human spaceflight.
Toilet: The crew checked the system for adequate pretreat dosing, inspected the cover on the Toilet Conductivity sensor for any leak of the pretreated urine, and filled out a questionnaire.  The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system.  The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS).  The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
Systems: 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Prep: Today, the crew performed a number of EVA tasks as part of their “Road to EVA.” These tasks included an EVA SAFER Checkout, EVA Airlock Video Tour, EVA RET Inspection, and EVA Crew Tether Inspections.

