
ISS Reboost: Today, the ISS successfully performed a reboost using the Progress 81P thrusters. The purpose of this reboost is to set up the conditions for Progress 82 34-Orbit rendezvous on October 25, 2022. The burn duration was estimated to be 10 minutes 30 seconds with a Delta-V of 1.0 m/s, and teams are assessing final performance. This reboost was performed after conditions were determined to be favorable for an early reboost originally planned for Wednesday, October 19th. 
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): A BCM research session consisting of a set of 12 runs/tests was performed. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight, and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The appropriate items were gathered, and the Cardiolab Portable Doppler (CDL PDOP) and European Physiology Modules Facility Continuous Blood Pressure Device (EPM CBPD) systems were set up to support the upcoming experiment sessions. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Fluid Dynamics in Space (FLUIDICS): A hard drive and its USB cable were connected to the system and secured in place. These will remain connected for several weeks. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position in relation to a temperature gradient on a model fuel tank system. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance (GRASP): Three variations of the quasi free-floating and seated science sessions were performed. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Systems:
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Flush Tank Partial Fill: Today, the crew performed a partial fill of the WHC ЕДВ-СВ along with removing excess pressure by using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any fluid during the venting.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Inventory and Stowage Activities: The Bose headsets used by departing crew were retrieved, the batteries removed, and the headsets stowed. For food consolidation efforts, NOD1S4 Pantry was backfilled and Crew-4 food was audited. The crew also removed and stowed various emergency equipment that had been deployed for Crew-4 undock operations, including Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and Quick Don Masks. Items were stowed in Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs).
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Activities: Multiple activities were completed in BEAM. The crew removed Items in front of N3 Aft for Hatch Access and opened and removed the Node 3 Aft Hatch before ingressing BEAM. SpX-26 return items were removed from and backfilled in BEAM. Environmental Health System (EHS) – Microbial and Surface Samples were collected, incubated, and stowed in BEAM. The crew re-stowed corridor bags in BEAM and cleaned up BEAM prior to hatch closure, egressed BEAM, re-installed the BEAM Hatch, and closed the Node 3 Aft Hatch. Items were returned back to N3A location that were removed for BEAM ingress.
Systems Operations Data File (SODF) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Systems and EVA Cuff Checklist Updates:Procedures were updated in the EVA Systems book and EVA Cuff Checklists using printouts and hand-written notes. The Cuff Checklist is a small book with an elastic band to allow EV crew to wear it on their wrist. The book always contains a set of pages for EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) contingency responses and pages for task-specific information to be printed and taped.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) N14B Remove and Replace (R&R): After gathering tools, parts, and materials, the crew R&Red the degraded NOD1RS1-A N14BRPCM behind the NOD1O1-01 closeout panel. The crew also installed a wire harness at the Node 1 Port Patch Panel to allow access to the J303 connector for potential future Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Contingency Jumper Installation.
Robotic Survey Operations: Today, robotics ground controllers completed a survey of the International Docking Adapter-3 (IDA-3) using the SSRMS to verify the IDA Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) is in a good configuration following the departure of the Crew-4 Dragon. MLI is designed to protect equipment from Micro Meteoroid Orbital Debris (MMOD) and thermal damage. 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope (CAR) Flip: Use of the exercise rope during cable exercises causes a portion of the CARs to experience cyclic flexural loads during operations. To mitigate this issue, the crew removed, flipped, and reinstalled the CARs. This results in the ropes being “pre-stretched’ which will double the life of the CARs, reducing the number of ropes that need to be built, tested, and flown in the future.

