ISS On-Orbit Status 10/13/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – Crew half-day duty.
 
After wakeup, FE-4 Malenchenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
Yuri also completed the periodic (daily) reboot of the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops.
 
Akihiko Hoshide completed Day 8 of his current extended session of the ESA ENERGY experiment. Today urine collection and sampling was required (not the first void of the day but before lunch; the urine samples, 4.9 ml volume and not needing cold stowage, were stowed ambient in the Energy Sample Kit, same as for water samples).  Also required was the special ENERGY breakfast plus logging of all ISS food &amp; drinks consumed during ENERGY experiment performance from lunch and dinner on Day 1 until breakfast on Day 10.      [Aki wears an armband monitor, positioned on the right triceps where it started automatically on skin contact. The instrument must be worn for the entire 10-day ENERGY measurement period and removed only during showers or if needed during blood draws.  Activities without the armband monitor on the triceps must be carefully logged.   The monitor will be removed at the end of the 10-day period, then data will be downloaded from the device.   Background:  The observed loss of astronauts’ body mass during space flight is partly due to the systematic ongoing negative energy balance in micro-G, in addition to disuse. Unfortunately, the reason for such unbalanced match between intake and output is not clear, but appealing data suggest a relation between the degree of energy deficit and the exercise level prescribed as a countermeasure. In the ENERGY experiment, astronauts are invited to participate in a study that aimed to evaluate how much food is needed for astronauts during long-term space missions.  To do so, the science team will measure every component or variable of the astronaut's energy expenditure reflecting his energy needs.  Those variables will be measured twice: up to 4 months before flight and after at least 3 months in space but 3 weeks before landing.  The changes in the astronaut's energy balance and expenditure will be measured, which will help in deriving an equation for energy requirements in weightlessness.  This will contribute to planning adequate, but not excessive cargo supplies for food. Purpose of the ENERGY experiment is (1) to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight, (2) to measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure TEE (consumption), and (3) to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.  TEE is the sum of resting metabolic rate (RMR, measured), diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT, measured oxygen-uptake minus RMR) and activity-related energy expenditure (AEE, calculated).] 
 
Using the Russian pumping equipment, CDR Williams started the periodic water transfer from the yesterday-degassed CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) Potable Water Storage Tank via “tee” hose and a freshly installed MRF (Microbial Removal Filter) cartridge as gas trap.  The transfer was terminated about 7.5 hrs later.     [During the day, with MCC-H monitoring, Suni checked transfer progress and purged gas from the MRF, as required, to allow water to flow from CWC-I to the Potable Water tank.]
 
Suni Williams, Yuri Malenchenko &amp; Akihiko Hoshide joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home.      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Yuri today completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP), and the grilles of the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System and SKV air conditioner in the SM, plus the POTOK-150MK (150 micron) pre-filters of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem.
 
Afterwards, the CDR performed regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
In the SpX-1 Dragon capsule, Suni also did the periodic status check on the GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator), ensuring that the freezer is operational and its temperature is as expected.
 
In JAXA’s Kibo lab, Hoshide terminated the MICB (MICROBE-3) experiment, closing down sampling by the ASD (Air Sampling Device) and the Particle Counter attached on the bottom of the Kobairo Rack GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace).    [12 AA batteries were marked "used" on Kapton tape and stowed.]
 
In the US Lab, Williams used the vacuum cleaner on the vents of the T61p OpsLAN Servers LS1 &amp; ISS-SERVER1 in bay O1, to ensure optimal performance.
 
Sunita also had about an hour set aside for activating and installing the first group of GAPs (Group Activation Packs) of the new Dragon-delivered experiment Micro-6 (Genotypic &amp; Phenotypic Responses of Candida albicans to Spaceflight) payload     [Activities involved removing Micro-6 GAPs from Dragon, inserting 7 GAPs (D,F,G,H,I,N,O) into CGBA-1 which was then set up in ER8 (EXPRESS Rack 8).  Next, 6 GAPs (B,C,E,J,K,P) were inserted in the activated CGBA-5. In the coming weeks the CDR will be activating, terminating, and transferring GAPs (Group Activation Packs) among CGBA-1 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 1), CGBA-4, and CGBA-5.  Specifically, CGBA-5 will be used to incubate the GAPs, CGBA-1 &amp; CGBA-4 will be used to cool GAPs before and after incubation.  Background: Fundamental space biology experiments address basic questions of how life responds to gravity and space environments. The experiments probe the fundamental nature of life in order to enhance our understanding of how life responds to physical phenomena and physical forces on Earth and serve as the basic biological foundation in support of exploration. In particular, Micro-6 studies how microgravity affects the health risk posed by the opportunistic yeast Candida albicans. In our bodies, yeasts, especially the yeast Candida albicans help us maintain a healthy personal ecosystem. However, when our immune systems are stressed, Candida albicans can grow out of control. When that happens, yeast become so numerous that infections can result in the mouth, throat, intestines, and genitor-urinary tract. The equipment consists of GAPs stored in a flight-certified incubator at a temperature of 4 degC. Each GAP contains eight FPAs (Fluid Processing Apparatuses) shaped like test tubes but designed to meet the unique requirement of mixing fluids in microgravity. Each FPA contains an isolated amount of the microbial culture of Candida, plus a growth medium and a termination reagent or fixative. During the three-week flight aboard the ISS, a crew member begins the experiment by increasing the incubator temperature to 30 degC, and then activate the FPAs by pushing the plunger to mix the Candida with a growth medium. After 24 or 50 hours depending on the sample, the experiment will be terminated by pushing the plunger deeper into the FPA which combines a fixative agent to effectively stop the growth of the yeast cultures.]
 
Yuri conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Suni again had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in her electronic Journal on the personal SSC.   [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
At ~9:10am EDT, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~10:40am, Yuri Malenchenko had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
At ~12:55pm, Yuri supported a Russian PAO TV downlink, extending greetings and congratulations from ISS to three events:   (1) the 80<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of K.E. Tsiolkovsky MATI (Moscow State Technology University, (2) the 80<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of MESI (Moscow State University of Economics, Statistics &amp; Informatics), (3) the 65<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of the 38<sup>th</sup> Separate Communications Regiment.    [(1) MATI, the Russian State K. E. Tsiolkovsky State Technology University, throughout its history was involved in training of engineers for aviation and space industry. A special event dedicated to celebrating the university’s anniversary will take place on 10/19, in the House of Unions Hall of Columns; university alumni, cosmonauts, scientists, MATI faculty and students will participate in this celebration.  (2) Currently, more than 70,000 people are studying at MESI’s using various education programs.  Many graduates of MESI became leaders of largest corporations and institutions, among those are:  RF Gazprom, Central Bank of Russia, Rosstat, 1C Company, International Academy of Stock and Commodity Trading “Forex Club”, EU-Leasing company. One may run into university alumni at international organizations like UN and UNESCO, at the President’s Administration, in Ministries and government agencies. In the course of its existence MESI gained a wide recognition abroad. MESI implements curricula based on bilateral and multilateral cooperation with leading educational institutions, international organizations, science and research centers of Italy, Bulgaria, Germany, Israel, the Netherlands, France, USA, Latvia, Abkhazia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, and other countries. (3) Airborne Troops 38<sup>th</sup> separate signal regiment is celebrating its 65<sup>th</sup> anniversary on 10/20, the professional holiday of Military Communications Specialists.]
 
At ~2:50pm, Aki Hoshide is scheduled for an amateur/ham radio session with students at Pacificon - ARRL Pacific Division Conference, Santa Clara, CA.
 
The crew worked out on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [CDR &amp; FE-6 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Suni on Friday, for Aki on Thursday.  If any day is not completed, Suni &amp; Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day. Suni’s protocol for today showed ARED/T2 (interval), with T2 (int., 2 min.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.), T2 (int., 30 sec.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.) and T2 (int., 4 min.) for the next 5 days. Aki’s protocol for today showed T2 (int., 2 min.), with ARED/CEVIS (cont.), T2 (int., 30 sec.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.) and T2 (int., 4 min.) on the following 4 days.]
 
Tasks listed for FE-4 Malenchenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U (Photo Image Coordinate Reference System) to record target sites on the Earth surface.</li></ul> 

