
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer 6 (NRCSD#6) Removal: Today Yui has removed NRCSD#6 from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Slide Table and has stowed it.  He also reinstalled the Lamp Housing Assembly (LHA) inside the Airlock.  (The LHA had been removed prior to safing the NRCSD Deployer #6, which contains two unlaunched cubesats.)  The Slide Table was then retracted back into the Airlock and the inner hatch was closed.
 
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4) Operations:  Kononenko continued PK-4 preparations begun over the weekend by connecting the gas supply flexhose to the Argon gas supply and then opening a valve to pressurize it.  An experiment run in PK-4 is planned to start tomorrow.  Plasma Kristall-4 is a complex European Space Agency (ESA) plasma laboratory installed in the Columbus European Physiology Module (EPM) rack and operated by Russian crewmembers.  PK-4 supports research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles (i.e., “plasma crystals”).
 
Microbiome:  Lindgren and Yui completed survey questionnaires and performed body sampling on Saturday as part of their Flight Day 90 session of the Microbiome investigation. Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kelly and Kornienko completed sessions of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  During the experiment they performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills investigation is to identify trends or variations in fine motor performance in microgravity over the duration of a year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance changes before and after gravitational transitions, such as during early flight adaptation and after return to Earth.
 
Journals:  Kelly completed a Journals entry yesterday and made another one today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly and Kornienko recorded Sleep Log entries on Saturday and Sunday and Kornienko made another entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The crew continued with preparations for the ISS Upgrades EVA.  Kelly and Yui participated in pre-EVA periodic health assessments.  Kelly then continued to configure tools to support the EVA.  Lindgren and Kelly used Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software to review the translation paths.  Yui and Lindgren also performed a checkout of the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) System.  The ISS Upgrades EVA is scheduled to occur Wednesday, October 28th with hatch opening taking place at approximately 7:10am CDT.
 
 
Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) Removal and Replacement (R&R):  Last Tuesday, the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) faulted during a reprocess cycle.  Subsequent troubleshooting indicated an error code associated with the FCPA.  Today, Lindgren performed an R&R of the FCPA.  Afterwards, Ground Controllers successfully checked out the FCPA valves.  A UPA process run is planned for tomorrow.
 

