
Russian Segment Extravehicular Activity (RS EVA) 40:  Suraev and Samokutyaev successfully conducted RS EVA 40 today in 3 hours 38 minutes.  Suraev and Samokutyaev accomplished the following objectives:

Removal and jettison of Radiometriya [РК 21-8] from SM Plane II
Removal of experiment EXPOSE-R protective cover from SM Plane II
Take samples for the “Test” Experiment on DC1 EV hatch 2 window
Removal and jettison KURS (2АСФ1-1 and 2АСФ1-2) antennas from MRM2
Taking photos of ISS RS exterior.

The jettisons were captured on video and specialists are analyzing its trajectory.
RS EVA Isolation activities: Throughout today’s EVA, Serova and Wilmore were isolated in the MRM-2 / Soyuz 40 volume, while Wiseman and Gerst had access to all modules forward of the Service Module / DC1.  During his isolation, Wilmore performed several tasks including an On-Board Training (OBT) for Cygnus rendezvous.  The Orbital-3 flight is scheduled for launch on Monday October 27th, and berthing on November 2nd.  Additionally, he performed an imagery survey of the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Wake Radiator and will be downlinking the images for ground teams to review.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Sample Collection: Following yesterday’s WHC system flush the crew successfully transferred the contents of an EДB to the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) through a Microbial Removal Filter (MRF).  The filter was able to capture a sufficient amount of black flakes and will be returned to the ground for analysis.
Ocular Health: Wiseman and Gerst performed their final (Return-30 day) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) session with Wiseman first acting as a Subject and Gerst the Operator then switching to Wiseman as the Operator for Gerst.  Gerst and Wiseman also performed fundoscopy with remote guidance. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Medaka Osteoclast Periodic Water Maintenance: Gerst performed a sampling of the Water Circulation Unit of the Aquatic Habitat (AQH) to measure the concentration of ammonia dissolved in the water.  JAXA specialists will be meeting tonight (Houston time) to review the data and determine forward actions. 

