
Meteor Operations: FE-6 exchanged the hard drive then removed and replaced the grating in the Meteor Camera located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF). The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument with the primary purpose of observing meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.
Microgravity Science Laboratory (MSL) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) Exchange: FE-3 was unable to locate the calibration cartridge and was directed to cap the cable connectors on the MSL chamber. The MSL was left in a safe configuration while ground teams investigate the potential locations for the cartridge.  The cartridge that FE-3 removed was used for Metastable Solidification of Composites (METCOMP1) Run 4 and completed on October 20. The calibration cartridge must be installed prior to the next science run.  The Batch-2b of the Materials Science Laboratory Sample Cartridge Assemblies (MSL SCA-Batch 2b-ESA) serves two projects investigating how different phases organize in a structure when metallic alloys are solidified. The METCOMP project studies the phase formed by the reaction of the remaining liquid phase with an already formed solid, to form a second solid phase on cooling. For this purpose, Bronze (Copper-Tin Alloys) of different compositions will be processed. The other project, Solidification along a Eutectic path in Ternary Alloys (SETA), looks at how two phases that form together organize into lamellar, or fibre, structures when cooling Aluminum (Copper-Silver Alloys). Both projects will provide benchmark samples that will enable to test numerical models that aim to predict these structures. 
Radiation Area Monitor (RAM) Retrieval:  FE-2 retrieved the RAMs that are located throughout ISS and package them for return on 47 Soyuz (47S).
Soyuz 47 (47S) Nominal Descent Drill:  The 47S crew participated in a nominal Soyuz Decent Drill.  As part of the training they reviewed preliminary undocking and descent data and worked through the descent timeline from Soyuz activation through post-landing activities.  The 47S crew is scheduled to return to Earth on Saturday, October 29th.

