
EML:  In support of the currently on-going batch 2.4, the crew closed the Argon valve system, opened the Helium valve system and switched the camera mode to RECAL.  The EML (Electro-Magnetic Levitator) is a 360 kg multi-user facility designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.  EML can accommodate up to 18 samples, each 5 to 8 mm in size.  Heating rates of up to 100 Kelvin per second can be achieved with a maximum temperature of 2,100°C.
Food Acceptability: The crew completed a Food Acceptability Survey using the Data Collection Tool on an available SSC (Station Support Computer). This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in two separate ISS HAM events, both located in California, which included: (1) Vermont Elementary School and (2) Golden Oak Montessori school. Some of the questions included what it feels like in microgravity, why it’s cold in space even though the sun is out all the time, and if aging is different for astronauts in space.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Ring Sheared Drop: The crew performed the sample exchange activities to prepare for a run on sample #5.  Difficulties have been experienced in the previous two sample deployment attempts for the 25 mm diameter drops.  The team has put in place means for mitigating any static charge buildup as well as slowing the syringe movements that have caused issues. The Ring Sheared Drop investigation uses microgravity to examine the formation and flow of amyloids in the absence of surface tension and other complications created by the solid walls of a container. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues, amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Veg-04B: The crew performed a routine plant check.  This includes the assessment of individual plant pillows, the addition of water as necessary, photography of the Mizuna plants, and mass measurement of any broken leaves.  With earlier versions of the Veggie experiments, the root mat is typically filled when the experiment is initiated.  The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.  A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight.
Systems:
HTV8 Unberth/ISS Outfitting: In preparation for the HTV8 Unberth on November 1, the crew completed the transfer of the final Resupply Stowage Platform (RSP) Rack from the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Starboard 3 location to HTV8S2 aisle-way location.  Resupply Stowage Platforms (RSP) removed from the PMM and replaced with new stowage racks will enable improved stowage efficiency.
Cygnus Launch Preparations: With the NG-12 launch rapidly approaching on November 2, the ISS crew spent some time today preparing for the arrival of the Cygnus vehicle including completing Cygnus rendezvous robotic training and a checkout of the Cygnus Command Panel.
CounterMeasures System (CMS) Crew Exercise Devices:  The ISS crew completed the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) cable arm ropes replacement that consisted of removing old Cable Arm Ropes (CAR) and installing new ones as well as applying proper rope tension.  As part of the ARED maintenance, the crew also inspected the Cable-Pulley System Bearings.  For the T2 exercise device, the crew completed the inspection of the all four snubber arms (part of the vibration isolation system) for any signs of free play. Both exercise devices play an important role in maintaining crew health and counteracting the effects of microgravity on the musculoskeletal system.
Hatch Seal Inspections:  The ISS crew performed a hatch seal inspection that included inspecting the USOS hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surface and crank handle mechanisms for FOD or damage.  Hatch seal inspections are part of preventative maintenance to ensure hatch mechanisms are operating nominally.

