
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #32:  EVA Crew-1 (EV1) Kelly and EV2 Lindgren egressed the Airlock at 7:03am CDT for EVA #32.  The Phase Elapsed Time was 7 hours and 16 minutes.  Prior to egress, for a short period of time, EV2 bumped the position of the water valve on his suit.  The suit was cleared to proceed after verification that water was not sublimating and the suit operated nominally throughout the EVA.  There will be an additional water recharge and inspection completed on that suit prior to the next EVA.
 
The planned objectives for the EVA were as follows:

Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Blanket and TTCS Wedge Install
Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Multi-Layered Insulation (MLI) Removal and Skirt Tie-Down
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE)-B Lube
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)-3 / International Docking Adapter (IDA)-3 Cable Route
Node 3 (N3) Non-Propulsive Vent (NPV) Install

 
The crew fully completed the AMS and MBSU tasks.  They completed the high priority LEE Lube tasks for lubing the ball screws and linear bearing tracks.  The lower priority task of lubing the equalization brackets and rollers was not completed.  The crew completed the PMA-3 IDA-3 cable routing and the aft portion of the PMA-3 power cable routing.  The forward portion of the PMA-3 power cable routing and the N3 NPV install were deferred to a future EVA.  The deferred tasks are not an impact to current ISS operations.
 
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4) Operations:  Kononenko provided support for the PK-4 experiment started yesterday by exchanging data hard drives.  Plasma Kristall-4 is a complex European Space Agency (ESA) plasma laboratory installed in the Columbus European Physiology Module (EPM) rack and operated by Russian crewmembers.  PK-4 supports research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles (i.e., “plasma crystals”).
 
Reaction Self Test:  Kelly will complete a session today for the Reaction Self Test investigation.  Reaction Self Test helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
 
Sleep Log:  Kornienko recorded a Sleep Log entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 

