
Payloads:
B Complex: The crew consolidated the remaining experiment supplements into one bottle, and continued the experiment operations. Some astronauts experience swelling near where the optic nerve attaches at the back of the eye, part of a condition called Spaceflight-Associated Neuro-ocular Syndrome, or SANS. Evidence exists that genetics and B vitamin status predispose some astronauts to develop this condition. The B Complex: A Nutraceutical SANS Countermeasure (B Complex) study tests whether a daily B vitamin supplement can prevent or mitigate SANS and how an individual’s genetics may influence the response.
Bio-Monitor stow: Following the conclusion the Vascular Aging and CIPHER experiments, the BioMonitor sensor garment and related hardware were stowed. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crew member daily activities.
Plant Habitat-03B: During the final experiment harvest about a month ago, the seed bags with the experiment samples were intentionally left in the Plant Habitat growth chamber. Today, these samples were prepared for return to the ground and the facility was cleaned. The Plant Habitat-03 series of plant experiments spanned more than six months, and included returning space-grown Arabidopsis seeds to the ground to be replanted (-03A) and grown again on ISS (-03B). Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Sleep in Orbit: The experiment batteries were charged, and an overnight science session was initiated.  The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep In Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG (electroencephalography) based sleep monitoring. A baseline picture of the individual astronaut’s natural sleep on Earth is established based on sleep recording before and after a space mission. This baseline picture is compared to the sleep patterns observed during missions to the ISS.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Purge Pump and Separator Assembly (PPSA) Separator and Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew performed an R&R on the PPSA Separator and Filter Assembly within the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). Over the last couple weeks, ground teams have seen a change in performance for the UPA. After deliberation, it was ultimately determined that an R&R was necessary to continue nominal operations. The R&R was successful.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Soyuz Survey: The ground team performed a walkoff of the SSRMS to the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) and performed a survey of the 70S Soyuz vehicle that is docked to the MRM-1 docking port. This was done to inspect the vehicle for any physical anomalies before undocking next March. Additionally, the team performed a visual inspection of the MLM radiator that was found leaking coolant in order to provide more insight into the anomaly prior to the Russian EVA on Wednesday. 
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review & Conference: The crew completed an independent procedure review and a USOS procedure conference in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Groups (RFG) EVA on Monday, October 30th. 
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) Fill: The crew helped transfer water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-I container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-I from over-pressurization. The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater.
