
Satlet Initial Mission Proofs and Lessons (SIMPL) Deployment: Following the depressurization of the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) yesterday, today ground controllers opened the outer hatch of the JEMAL and extended the slide table holding SIMPL.  Then the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) with the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) grappled and removed the Kaber with the SIMPL from the JEMAL and positioned it for release.  SIMPL was successfully deployed into its own orbit at 0915 GMT to complete its science mission as a free-flying satellite.  The Kaber was returned to the JEMAL. 
Veg-03 Consumption Harvest #1: The crew harvested and ate several of the larger leaves from each plant. The remainder of the plants will be left to grow and sprout new leaves. The Veg-03 investigation uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate a type of cabbage, lettuce and mizuna which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate a type of cabbage, lettuce and mizuna which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing. 
Plant Habitat Installation: Today the crew conducted a series of four assembly and installation activities for the Plant Habitat facility into the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 5 (ER5).  Next week, the crew will move the Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS) Sensor Enclosure from the European Drawer Rack to ER5. The Advanced Plant Habitat Facility (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that will be used to conduct plant bioscience research on the International Space Station (ISS). It occupies the lower half of the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) rack and two International Subrack Interface Standard (ISIS) drawers, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.  The associated Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS) Sensor Enclosure (SE) installation was deferred when the other activities ran long.  It will be re-scheduled later. 
Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): Today the subject performed day 4 of the 11-day Energy investigation, by taking ISS tap water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser and conducting urine sample collections. Throughout the day, the crew continued to log their food and drink consumptions as well. The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Nine astronauts will be examined during exercise and rest cycles three months before launch, three months after arriving at space station and adapting to the space environment, and after return to Earth. Physicians will measure metabolic rates, urine content, and bone density to determine energy needs.
Fluidics:  Today is the second and final day of the Fluidics experiment run, which includes the 2nd and 3rd science runs and two bonus test sequences. The first bonus test sequence was conducted prior to the start of the 2nd science run, and the second bonus test sequence was conducted after the 3rd science run. Fluidics is a fluid mechanics experiment with two main objectives: a Slosh Study to investigate fluid behavior under microgravity during satellite maneuvers, and a Wave Turbulence Study to investigate the impact of capillary effect on wave turbulence without being masked by the effect of gravity. Two tanks with different filling rations (50% and 75%) for Slosh and one tank with water for Wave Turbulence will be used.  
Story Time from Space: A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space investigation by reading “Starry Messenger” on camera. The video recordings will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time from Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
51 Soyuz (51S) Emergency Egress Drill: The 51S crew participated in an emergency descent drill. This training session focuses on off-nominal procedures that would be used in the event the crew needs to egress the ISS and perform an emergency descent. The drill is scheduled when the crew has been aboard the ISS for 12-14 weeks, then once every 2.5 months. 
Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Tank Bag Relabel:  The crew relabeled NORS Tank bags numbers.  The number currently on the bags do not correspond to the serial number of the Recharge Tank Bag nor the Recharge Tank contained within, and has misled crew to attempt installation of an incorrect tank.  This task will prevent confusion in the future. 
Backup Commercial off the Shelf Ultra High Frequency Communications Unit Removal (CUCU) Removal: Today the backup CUCU was removed and permanently stowed to make room in the Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack for a payload arriving on SpaceX-14 (SpX-14). 

