ISS On-Orbit Status 10/24/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew light-duty day.
 
  At day begin, FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily check of the new aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which he installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) and hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).    [Maxim again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  FE-2 Stott removed the alignment guides from the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab to allow PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) activation by the ground for operations requiring a microgravity environment.  Tonight before bedtime, Nicole will re-install the guides to lock PaRIS down again.
 
  The six-member crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  FE-1 Suraev did the periodic checkup behind ASU panel 139 in the SM (Service Module) on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
  As part of the house cleaning, Suraev &amp; FE-3 Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9).
 
  Later, Maxim also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Roman completed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM and FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
  FE-4 Thirsk completed the now regular transfer of pre-treated Russian urine directly from EDV-U container into the Lab UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) for processing, done each morning for about 5 minutes.
 
  Before undertaking the transfer, Thirsk moved the UPA/EDV-U pump unit’s power cable from its plug-in in Locker 2 of ER-6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) to the ER-6 Locker 4 power outlet.     [Locker 2 is a 10 amp power source, but the 22-gauge EDV-U cable  is rated for a lower current limit and has no built-in fuse to protect against overcurrent in the event of a short circuit inside the compressor.  The Locker 6 outlet has been set via software to 5 amp power outlet.  This cable will be replaced with a new design on Mission 20A when the system is moved to Node 3.] 
 
  For today’s several VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activities, on the crew’s free time, Nicole Stott &amp; Frank De Winne set up the hardware for another BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment) experiment run, then each of them worked through the protocol and taking photographs of the partner.     [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity, investigating the relative contributions of internal &amp; external cues to self-orientation during and after micro-G exposure.  BISE data collection must be performed at least one hour after any exercise.  The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration micro-G conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to micro-G and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts are being presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.]
 
  For a second VolSci activity, Bob Thirsk set up the G1 camcorder for recording his subsequent performance of an educational science Podcast script describing ESA’s SODI-IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids) and  Canada’s MVIS (Microgravity Vibration Insulation System) activities.     [Without buoyancy in the station’s weightless environment, molecules can be studied in new ways, isolating processes that may have been obscured in gravity on Earth.  SODI-IVIDIL uses two motive forces – vibration &amp; thermo-diffusion – to learn more about molecular movement.  To achieve that, inside the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) liquid samples are being shaken and also heated &amp; cooled.  With SODI, a sophisticated optical instrument, temperature and concentration of the molecules are then being measured.  Except for purposes like SODI-IVIDIL, vibrations (hum of the ventilation system, pounding of the exercise machines, grinding of revolving solar panels) are unwanted on the ISS.  To counter this problem, Canada has developed a technology called MVIS.  It uses magnetic actuators to levitate experiments, held in FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory), so that they are not affected by vibrations.  Sensors and an onboard computer control the position of the contained experiments, ensuring they remain free-floating.  Podcast: a series of digital media files (either audio or video) that are released episodically and downloaded through web syndication or on demand.] 
 
  Bob also had ~30 min set aside to review material related to BCAT (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test) operations and procedures for the planned setting up of the necessary equipment in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     [Earlier this year (May) the crew deemed the US Lab too crowded for running BCAT.  Starting 10/26, BCAT will be running in the JPM on the forward side of the airlock.]
 
  Afterwards, Thirsk shut down the EK (EarthKAM) system in Node-1 and stowed the equipment, then relocated the Ku-band power supply used for EK from Node-1 to the JPM for powering BCAT beginning 10/26.    [EK successfully conducted 5-days of image gathering for 122 Education Groups (Elementary through Collegiate levels) for 9761 students.  97 of the groups are from US Schools, 10 from Australia, the remainder from Spain: 2, Germany: 2, Japan, Dominican Republic, France, Lebanon, United Kingdom, Finland, India, Denmark, Netherlands, Romania, Guatemala.  Over 750 images have been downlinked with two more days of operations still to follow.] 
 
  Nicole, Bob, Jeff &amp; Frank filled out their regular weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  Nicole also completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC laptops.
 
  The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3). 
 
  Afterwards, the CDR transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
  At ~11:05am EDT Frank powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 11:10am conducted a ham radio session with Belayr Pathfinders at Dartmouth/Halifax, NS, Canada.
 
 
