
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST):  The ISS crew began a BEST experiment 1 session.  The goal of experiment 1 is to identify bacteria directly from ISS surfaces through the swabbing and subsequent extraction of DNA from the swab using miniPCR.  The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
BioServe Protein Crystallography (BPC)-1:  In today’s phase 2 final operations session, the crew removed the BioServe Protein Crystallography samples from SABL, then observed and photographed the sample wells using the microscope.  Well-defined crystals were present in many of the observed wells.  BPC-1 seeks to demonstrate the feasibility of conducting protein crystal growth in real time onboard the ISS. Crewmembers add solutions to the hardware, observe the crystals that form, and adjust for follow-on experiments. This approach gives scientists the ability to optimize crystal growth in microgravity instead of waiting for samples to return and then launching them again.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) / Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) / Electric-Field Effects on Laminar Diffusion (E-FIELD) Flames Hardware Replacement:  Today the crew removed the negative power supply and installed the positive power supply in support of the continuing E-Field Flames part 2 investigation.  For E-Field Flames an electric field with voltages as high as 10,000 volts is established between the burner and a mesh electrode. The motion of the charged ions, which are naturally produced within the flame, are strongly affected by a high-voltage electric field. The resulting ion-driven wind can dramatically influence the stability and sooting behavior of the flame. Conducting the tests in microgravity allows for great simplifications in the analysis, enabling new understanding and the development of less polluting and more efficient combustion technology for use on Earth.
Loop Heat Pipe Radiator (LHPR):  The checkout of the external LHPR investigation was initiated via ground commanding this morning.  The LHPR, is an advanced two-phase heat transfer device that utilizes the evaporation and condensation of a working fluid to transfer heat, and the capillary force to circulate the fluid. This investigation demonstrates the heat transfer performance/functions under microgravity conditions using the LHPR experimental apparatus, which is grappled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS). This technology can be applied in the thermal control system of future satellites that generate large amounts of heat that could negatively affect satellite operations. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKam) Set Up: The crew set up the EarthKAM hardware in Node in preparation for the start of Mission 64.  As of today, over 19,000 students from 34 countries have signed up to participate.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2) Radio Frequency (RF) Demonstration:  Ground Teams are implementing their fourth and final on-orbit C2V2 demonstration while flying over the Electronic System Test Laboratory (ESTL). These demonstrations are intended to verify end-to-end functionality of all C2V2 capabilities following the Revision 2 (R2) Software transition, which occurred this past March.

