
SpaceX-4 Departure Preparations:  The Crew performed final cargo loading today. Once loading was complete, they egressed Dragon, closed the hatch, and configured the Node 2 vestibule which included installation of the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs).  SpaceX-4 unberth activities are scheduled to start tomorrow morning at ~7:00am with the Crew releasing Dragon at ~8:56am, utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).
EarthRim:  Gerst set up a camera in Cupola for sequential auto photo shooting. Sequential shooting is executed for 50 minutes.  The Earth Rim Observation supports the Multi-mission Consolidated Equipment (MCE) investigation by providing further observation data to enhance the research outcome.
MICRO 8:  Gerst removed Micro-8 Group Activation Pack (GAPs) from the Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA) and packed it for return on SpaceX-4.
Biological Research 48:  Gerst prepared Actiwatch Spectrums for data collection of Biorhythm 48 measurement by configuring two Actiwatches using Actiware Software and the Medical Laptop. The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew will wear an Actiwatch for 96 hours and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48 hours.  The crew conducts two In-flight data collects.
Circadian Rhythms:  Wiseman donned instrumentation to begin the 36 hour Circadian Rhythm experiment.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.

