
Microbiome:  Lindgren and Yui completed survey questionnaires as part of their Flight Day 90 session of the Microbiome investigation. Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Radiation Neutron Field Study (Radi-N):  Kelly retrieved the eight bubble detectors from their deployed locations in the ISS and handed them over to a Russian crewmember.  The objective of RADI-N is to characterize the neutron environment of the ISS.  The data produced is used to define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and support development of advanced protective measures for future space flight.
 
Space Headaches:  Yui and Lindgren answered their weekly Space Headaches questionnaires today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Soyuz 43 (43S) Emergency Egress On-Board Training:  The 43S Crew (Kononenko, Yui, and Lindgren) participated in an Emergency Egress Drill this morning. The crew reviewed procedures associated with nominal and off nominal Soyuz descent scenarios.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  The crew continued to prepare for the ISS Upgrades EVA scheduled for next Wednesday, October 28th.  Today, they performed an EVA procedure review then followed up with a conference with ground specialists to answer any questions.  Yui and Kelly used Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software to review the translation and robotics operation paths.  In addition, Kelly continued configuring EVA Tools.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers configured the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to perform a RapidScat survey with the SSRMS boom cameras and the SPDM Body 2 camera from seven different view positions while the RapidScat antenna was rotating.  They stowed the SPDM on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture #2 (PDGF2).   After the SSRMS had released the SPDM, it was walked off MBS PDGF1 onto MBS PDGF3.   During the MBS PDGF3 capture with Latching End Effector A (LEE-A), the Gear Box Limping (GBL) feature was used to characterize the reduction of the rigidize loads when in a hard-to-backdrive SSRMS joint configuration.  Finally the Robotic Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to the start position for the USOS ISS Upgrades EVA.  Today they gathered data on LEE B to support troubleshooting for the issues seen during HTV5 release.
 

