ISS On-Orbit Status 10/23/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew rest day.
 
 At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Fyodor again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-3 Kelly started the 24-hr collection of urine samples for the NUTRITION / Repository / Pro K protocol, his first onboard session with the new routine (modified from the past NUTRITION w/Repository protocol), for storage in a 3x5 mesh bag in MELFI 1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 1), Dewar 1, Tray B, Sect. 3/4.     [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
 The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).
 
 Later, Kaleri also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM &amp; FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
 At ~8:25am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 Working in Node-3, Wheelock disconnected the LTL QD (Low Temperature Loop Quick Disconnect of the AR CDRA (Atmosphere Revitalization Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly).
 
 For her on-going 4<sup>th</sup> Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, Shannon Walker observed the initial 10-min rest period (~7:41am EDT) before going about her business, swapping Makita batteries as required.  Midpoint for the entire ICV run was reached at about 3:35pm, after which the second 24h data collection period was started immediately before Presleep.       [The rest period involved relaxing &amp; breathing normally for 10 minutes under quiet, restful conditions.  ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres/BP to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Shannon continued the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing were timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After approximately 24 hrs (today at ~3:35pm), the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.]
 
 Shannon completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router &amp; FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops (the latter required to mitigate the problem of iPV and OSTPV not opening up procedures due to a memory leak in the “Tomcat” software).  After a period of no less than 10 min later, FE-6 also rebooted the two ISS network servers (SERVER1 &amp; 2).
 
 In the U.S. A/L (Airlock), Scott Kelly terminated the bake-out regeneration of the latest EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) METOX (Metal Oxide) canister for CO<sub>2</sub> absorption.
 
 Oleg Skripochka completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 At ~10:55am, Alex, Oleg &amp; Fyodor supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking well-wishes and greetings to Rocket Festival RAKETAFEST 2010, taking place on 10/30 on the runway of the Central Frunze airfield in Khodynka city near Moscow for the purpose of promoting and popularizing rocket model building and rocket sport in Russia.  The festival is part of preparations for and celebration of the 50<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the flight of Yuri Gagarin.
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 
