
Echo External Hard Disk Connection: The crew connected the Echo External Hard Disk and USB Cable to SSC 11 in preparation for a file update and subsequent Echo software update.  The purpose of the investigation is to evaluate a tele-operated ultrasound system equipped with motorized probes that are controlled by ground controllers. Additionally, this investigation serves to perform the commissioning of the Echo instrument which is planned for use during future Vascular Echo experiment.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew extracted the sample cartridge from the ELF, removed the lost sample from ELF cartridge chamber, and reassembled the ELF. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): EarthKAM mission 64 is continuing nominally.  A total of 21,753 students from 38 countries are now signed up and 4,984 images have been downlinked.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Wireless Communication and Positioning Experiment (Wireless Compose or WiCo): The crew reconfigured the WiCo Motes (sensor packages) to energy harvesting mode.  One of the three objectives of the WiCo experiment is to demonstrate energy harvesting as a viable method to achieve a maintenance-free sensing system for ISS and future scenarios.  WiCo demonstrates a wireless network for the efficient readout of sensors, as well as the localization of moving objects within the Columbus module of the ISS. The experiment is based on the impulse radio – ultra-wideband (IR-UWB), which extends the capabilities of a recently performed wireless sensor network (WSN) demonstration using Industrial, Scientific, and Medical (ISM) bands at 2.45 GHz. The evaluation of Wireless Compose helps to analyze potential uses of WSN for unmanned and manned spaceflight missions, and to derive obstacles and limitations for the operations under very specific conditions due to the complex electromagnetic environment. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Operations: The crew completed a half dump and fill on EMUs 3004 and 3006 followed by scrubbing and iodination of the suits. 
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: Using the Velocicalc tool, the crew took measurements of selected USOS ventilation inlets and outlets as part of system health monitoring. These readings are taken approximately every 4 months.

