
Cygnus Cargo Operations:  The crew was originally scheduled to ingress the Cygnus vehicle this morning, however the crew got ahead of the timeline and ingressed on Sunday, October 23rd.  Today the crew performed Cygnus cargo transfer operations off the tasklist during the time that was allocated for ingress.
Airway Monitory Reconfiguration: Following Tuesday’s successful Airway Monitoring session in the Joint Airlock, FE-5 and FE-6 stowed the experiment hardware and reconfigured the Airlock back to its nominal configuration. Airway Monitoring is the first experiment to use the US Airlock as a hypobaric facility for performing science. Utilizing the US Airlock will allow unique opportunities for the study of gravity, ambient pressure interactions, and their effect on the Human Body. This investigation studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This helps to highlight any health impacts and to maintain crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, especially longer-duration missions to the Moon and Mars for example, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in highlighting and avoiding such conditions.
Simple Solar Neutron Detector Deploy: FE-3 retrieved the Simple Solar Neutron Detector from the Cygnus vehicle and deployed it on the Node 2 Lightbridge.  The crew took photos and downlinked them for ground teams to review.  Neutrons are difficult to detect because they are electrically neutral particles and pass through most detector systems without detection. The slow neutron Spectrometer University of Lincoln-Nebraska Detector for the Analysis of Solar Neutrons (DANSON) uses a new instrument design that can significantly improve the reliability of identifying neutrons in the mixed radiation field found in deep space. This instrument design uses a moderation and capture technique that slows down the neutrons and then “captures” them in an isotope of boron. The DANSON detector uses special crystals and thin film devices loaded with the boron 10 isotope to absorb the slowed neutrons, leaving a signature in the crystal or the device of the neutron capture process. DANSON uses custom materials with distinct signatures that are easily recognized as a distinct neutron capture signal, which is then processed and analyzed to determine the radiation levels. The objective is to measure the neutron flux and neutron energy on the ISS with DANSON. The ISS provides a valuable testbed for evaluating the instrument performance in a mixed radiation environment that includes sources from galactic cosmic rays, solar energetic particles, trapped radiation belts and albedo neutrons from Earth’s atmosphere. The structure and contents of the ISS serve as a realistic spacecraft for exploration. 

