
Cygnus Departure: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) in the Hot Backup configuration and re-rigidized Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE)-A which was grappled to Cygnus.   Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg and FE-5 Parmitano demated Cygnus from the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) and then used the SSRMS to uninstall Cygnus and maneuver it to the release position. The ISS Crew then released Cygnus at 6:31 am CDT and maneuvered the SSRMS back from the spacecraft.  After Cygnus departure, the ISS Crew maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position.  The Robotics Ground Controllers then reconfigured the MSS for nominal operations, used the SSRMS cameras to support an inspection survey of the Node 2 Nadir Active CBM, and powered down the MSS.  Cygnus is scheduled for a destructive re-entry tomorrow, October 23rd.
Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (EarthKAM): Parmitano set up the EarthKAM components in Node 2 and activated the camera and software for viewing of the Cygnus vehicle departure and a week-long imaging session. EarthKAM is an education program that enables thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM ground team then posts these photographs on the Internet for the public and participating classrooms around the world to view.
Thermolab Instrumentation for Circadian Rhythms with Actiwatch:  Parmitano configured and donned an Actiwatch and instrumented himself with Thermolab sensors connected to a Thermolab Unit attached to his belt.  This equipment will be worn for the next 36 hours for the last of the six sessions planned for Parmitano.  The ESA Circadian Rhythms experiment examines the role of synchronized circadian rhythms (the human body’s 24 hour light-dark cycle) and its maintenance during long duration spaceflight.  Understanding how changes in body composition, body temperature regulation, and physical activity affect circadian rhythms will support development of enhancements for performance and health care of future crewmembers.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-3:  FE-3 Hopkins set up and initiated the 4th CEF ICF run of the 17 currently planned.  CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners.  Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity.  The units used in the ICF-3 runs differ from other ICF series in the capillary geometry of the test chambers.  Equations governing the process are known but have not been solved analytically because of a lack of experimental data identifying the appropriate boundary conditions for the flow problem. Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can then be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
Fan/Pump/Separator (FPS) R&R Tool Gather:  Hopkins gathered the tools that will be used during the FPS R&R scheduled tomorrow, Wednesday October 23, 2013.  The FPS R&R is a continuation of EMU 3011 troubleshooting following an excessive amount of water accumulating in the helmet during US EVA 23.

