
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L): The crew continued to trouble shoot the equipment installation. Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer – 02 (AMS): The crew reviewed AMS EVA procedures. AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew stowed the spare Rodent Habitat that was used for acoustic noise testing.  RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth.
Systems:
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-8 Cargo Operations and ISS Outfitting: This week, the crew will continue to focus on HTV8 cargo operations in preparation for HTV8 close out and departure late next week.  This included performing a stowage rack swap that moved two Resupply Stowage Platforms (RSP) and a Resupply Stowage Rack (RSR) from the ISS Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) to the HTV vehicle in exchange for the installation of two Zero-G Stowage Racks (ZSR) shells in the PMM.  This reconfiguration of the PMM will increase overall stowage capacity and volume efficiency in the PMM than the previous configuration.
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Post EVA Operations:  Following last Friday’s USOS EVA#58, today the crew performed some clean-up procedures on the Extravehicular Activity Mobility Units (EMU). This procedure involved performing a water loop scrub on two EMU suits and treating them with an iodinated biocide, which helps maintain the EMUs for the next EVA.  Additionally, the crew completed the Airlock restow activity.
Node 1 Galley Rack:  Early yesterday morning, the Node 1 Galley Rack experienced an electrical power overcurrent event.  Therefore, due to issues with the Node 1 Galley Rack power draw, ground teams worked with the crew to relocate the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) from the Node 1 Galley Rack to Express Rack 8 in the US Lab.  In addition, the crew’s food warmer was moved from the Russian Segment to Node 1.  While ground teams continue to troubleshoot the Node 1 Galley Rack overcurrent event, the relocations allow the crew to keep using the PWD and the food warmer.

