
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA):  Due to the EVA yesterday, the US crew was scheduled for a half duty day.  This morning, Kelly and Lindgren completed post-EVA health assessments.  Kelly, Yui and Lindgren then participated in an EVA debrief session with ground specialists.  Later, Kelly remated wire harness W0142 to the Node 1 Starboard Gore Panel.  The wire harness was demated to provide an upstream physical inhibit for the EVA installation of W2289 during EVA #32.  Lastly, Lindgren completed a refill of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) feed water tanks and an ullage dump on EMUs 3003 and 3010.
 
Plant Gravity Sensing 2 (PGS2) Investigation:  Yui retrieved a Seed Paper Kit from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), prepared the Seed Papers for 4 Culture Dishes and then returned the culture dishes to the MELFI.  Tomorrow the seeds will be inserted into the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to start the second of two runs for PGS2.  The PGS2 investigation supports the study of cellular formation of the plant’s gravity sensors and the molecular mechanism for gravity sensing in plants grown in microgravity conditions.
 
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4) Investigation:  Kononenko performed closeout activities for the first run of PK-4, completed today, and prepared the equipment for the next run.  He then replaced the data hard drives with new ones, and then filled the PK-4 Chamber first with cleaning gas and then with Neon gas.  PK-4 is a scientific payload for performing research in the field of ‘Complex Plasmas’: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
 
eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS (ViABLE) Experiment:  Kelly touched the palm of his hand to experimental materials located on the top covers of ViABLE bags.  He also blew on experimental materials located on those covers.  This activity is performed approximately every 45 days and the bags are photographed at 6 month intervals.  ViABLE involves the evaluation of microbial biofilm development on metallic and textile space materials located inside and on the cover of Nomex pouches. Microbial biofilms are known for causing damage and contamination on the Mir space station and the ISS.  The potential application of novel methodologies and products to treat space materials may lead to improvements in the environmental quality of confined human habitats in space and on earth.
 
Habitability:  Today, Kelly documented his recent observations related to human factors and habitability for the Habitability investigation.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Sleep Log:  Kornienko recorded a Sleep Log entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Environmental Sampling:  Yui deployed a formaldehyde monitor in the US Lab. It will remain deployed for 2 days.  He also collected air samples in the US Lab and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) using Grab Sample Containers (GSCs).  These samples will be returned to the ground on 43S for post-flight analysis.
 
 

