
Ice Crystal-2 Troubleshooting:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg measured the resistance of the Temperature Control Cable and Ice Cell 2 in the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) with a multimeter to check the conduction state prior to the reconfiguration of signal cables tomorrow. Ice Crystal-2 operations are planned to begin the week of November 18th.  JAXA’s Ice Crystal-2 investigation examines the growth rates and stability of ice crystals in supercooled water including antifreeze glycoprotein.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment:  Nyberg conducted the 3rd of the new series of 12 InSPACE-3 runs. This new series uses the same test parameter settings as previous runs but with an increase in the duration from 2 hours to 6 hours. This will allow investigation of a continued chain-like aggregation phenomena observed towards the end of some of the previous shorter duration runs. InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state with the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valve (ASV) Remove and Replace (R&R): Using an onboard spare that had been recently cleaned, all three USOS crewmembers worked together in order to replace the Node 3 CDRA ASV-1.  The crew also inspected three hydraflow couplings between the CDRA and Sabatier for potential water leak path into Sabatier. The problematic ASV started to transition slower than its allocated time back on GMT 181. Since then, the Node 3 CDRA has been functioning with ground specialist intervention. Following the R&R, ground teams successfully activated the Node 3 CDRA and observed nominal valve motion.
Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Water Separator R&R: Having completed the CDRA ASV-1 R&R early, the crew elected to perform an additional in flight maintenance task today. FE-6 Parmitano and FE-3 Hopkins performed an R&R of the LAB1 Port 6 CCAA Water Separator, which had failed in July of this year.  After the crew completed their activity, ground teams successfully activated the CCAA.  Checkout of the unit is ongoing.

