
Ocular Health (OH) Eye and Cardiac Ultrasounds:  Today Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano performed ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans as part of FE-3 Hopkins’ Flight Day 30 Ocular Health session. In-flight data collection was assisted by remote guidance from ground experts to ensure proper positioning and data collection. Ocular ultrasound is used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular, and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent.
Biological Rhythms 48 Hour Experiment:  FE-6 Nyberg completed her session of JAXA’s Biological Rhythms 48-hour experiment, removed the Digital Walk Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) and Actiwatch and saved the accumulated Holter data.  This study examines the circadian variation of astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight. The research is expected to provide insights into changes in those functions before, during, and after long-duration space flight and may be used to improve the health care technology used for future ISS crewmembers.
Resist Tubule (Mechanisms of Gravity Resistance in Plants From Signal Transformation and Transduction to Response): Nyberg retrieved the Resist Tubule culture chambers and harvested the plants for fixation using KSC fixation tubes.  She inserted the samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and downlinked photographs.  JAXA’s Resist Tubule is an investigation that uses the microgravity environment of ISS to examine the modifications in cellular components that are responsible for gravity resistance in plants.  The knowledge gathered during this investigation will enable efficient plant production in both space and on earth.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Troubleshooting: Following yesterday’s successful R&R of the EMU 3011 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Assembly, Hopkins completed pump priming then a checkout of the EMU this morning. The EMU successfully passed its water leak test with no water observed within the helmet. The R&R was part of an ongoing troubleshooting effort stemming from an issue experienced with the suit during USOS EVA #23, when water leaked into Parmitano’s helmet.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-4 Hatch Closure:  FE-1 Kotov and Parmitano closed the ATV-4 and SM Transfer Hatches then performed leak checks in preparation for ATV-4 undock on Monday, October 28 at 3:59 am CDT.  ATV-4 delivered more than 2489 kg of cargo to the ISS and will be disposing of more than 2160 kg of trash when it undocks.

