
Veg-03G:  Today, the crew installed a Root Mat and Plant Pillows, then powered up Veg-03G and set light intervals.  They then filled the Plant Pillows and Root Mat with water in order to initiate the Veg-03G experiment.  This is the first day of a 28 day growth cycle for the Red Russian Kale and Dragoon Lettuce plants. The primary goal of the Veg-03G testing is to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie hardware using leafy green vegetables as test crops, benefitting future long-duration space missions which will require crew members to grow their own food.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM):  EarthKAM mission 64 is continuing nominally.  As of this report, 242 schools representing 20,445 students and 37 countries have signed up to request images.  17,360 image requests have been submitted, 3,437 images have been downlinked, and 2,879 images have been posted to the web.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) DC/DC Converter Unit 2 (DCU2):  The ground has detected an issue with the assembly of DCU2 on MSPR2.  The checkout scheduled for tomorrow, October 26, will be cancelled and the ground teams are considering a forward plan.  The MSPR is a multipurpose payload rack system used in the JEM equipped with two workspaces and a worktable that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization, including science and educational missions.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Clean:  A USOS crewmember cleaned the Overhead CQ today. During this activity, the crew cleaned behind panels, intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors as required.
Port Solar Array Imagery:  The crew obtained photographs of all four Port Solar Array mast structures and blankets.  These images will provide data that can be compared to baseline imagery to obtain a better understanding of the current physical condition of the arrays and the potential rates that structural degradation of the mast occurs due to Micro Meteor Orbital Debris (MMOD) damage.
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)7 Cargo Transfer:  Today, the crew completed loading of all currently available cargo items. Any remaining trash to be loaded will consist of common trash and KTOs which will be loaded as they become available.

