
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) / Light Microscopy Module (LMM) / Biophysics-4:  Following an overall successful conclusion of the Biophysics-4 experiment run, the Biophysics-4 plate was removed from the LMM and stowed.  The Biophysics-4 experiment contained proteins with both a fast and slow evolutionary period, which were observed by the ground teams.  Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work. Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. The Effect of Macromolecular Transport on Microgravity Protein Crystallization (LMM Biophysics 4) studies why this is the case, examining the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity. 
Meteor Troubleshooting:  As a continuation of the Meteor troubleshooting, the crew opened the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF), replaced the faulty inverter, and configured the diffraction grating to support operations.  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. The study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) DC/DC converter unit 2 (DCU2) and Video Compression And Recording Unit 2 (VRU2) R&R:  Today the crew performed the MSPR DCU2 Cable connection and Closeout. They also replaced the MSPR VRU with an upgraded VRU2 unit.  The MSPR is a multipurpose payload rack system used in the JEM. The MSPR has two workspaces and a work table that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization including science and educational missions. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Set Up: Today the 50mm camera lens was exchanged for an 85mm camera lens for the on-going EarthKAM mission 64.  EarthKAM is expected to continue this mission through Tuesday, October 30.  As of today, over 20,000 students from 37 countries are participating and 2,069 images have been downlinked.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Clean:  A USOS crewmember cleaned the Deck CQ today.  During this activity, the crew cleaned behind panels, intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors as required.

