
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research (CIPHER) on Varying Mission Durations: Standard Measures (SM) Pre-sleep Questionnaires were filled out, blood pressure measurements were obtained, and ultrasound scans were performed in support of the CIPHER investigation. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
ISS Ham: An ISS Ham pass was supported with the A. L. Burruss Elementary School in Marietta, GA. Some of the questions asked by the students included how crewmembers stay in touch with their families, how the crew knows if it’s night or day, and if the astronauts do any math on station. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Plant Habitat: The crew performed the steps necessary to close the Carbon Dioxide (CO2) bottle valves, as well as an inspection and a cleaning of the facility. Closing these valves helps prevent any slow leakage of the CO2 before the next time the system is needed. The Advanced Plant Habitat (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that is used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack and one powered International Subrack Interface Standard (ISIS) drawer, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Sleep in Orbit: Science sessions were continued for the Sleep in Orbit investigation. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-electroencephalography (EEG) based sleep monitoring. A baseline picture of the individual astronaut’s natural sleep on Earth is established based on sleep recording before and after a space mission. This baseline picture is compared to the sleep patterns observed during missions to the ISS.
Systems:
USOS ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Groups (RFG) EVA, scheduled for Monday, October 30th. They completed EVA Tool Configuring, a Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review, and a Robotics Procedure Review.
Teal Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Installation: The crew completed installation, activation, and checkout of Teal CEVIS. Following a failed attempt at installing Teal CEVIS earlier this month, it was determined that the system could be installed effectively by using four extenders instead of six to avoid interference with the rack behind Teal CEVIS. This allowed the crew to successfully perform the installation following the new procedure. The ground team is assessing the data from the checkout before clearing the system for use.
Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo prepack operations in preparation for the arrival of the SpX-29 cargo vehicle. They also completed stowage consolidation in the JEM to prepare to accept the SpX-29 cargo. SpX-29 is planned to arrive in November and remain at the space station for 30 days before returning safely to Earth.
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) Fill: The crew helped transfer water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-I container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-I from over-pressurization. The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater.
