
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research (CIPHER) on Varying Mission Durations: Blood pressure measurements and ultrasound scans were performed in support of the CIPHER investigation. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) Ice Brick: The crew gathered ambient -32°C Ice Bricks and prepared them for upcoming MELFI insertions to cool them down. The Ice Bricks contain a phase-change material designed to maintain temperatures within a certain range and are used to transport science samples. There are several different versions of Ice Bricks depending on the temperature range required.
Systems:
Robotics Refueling Mission 3 (RRM3) Installation: Last night, ground robotics teams completed commanding to power up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuver the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to extract the RRM Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM). These operations were nominal and the activity was completed. RRM-3 has supported onboard ISS since 2018 as a joint operation between NASA and CSA. The payload was designed to advance technologies required for on-orbit servicing of cryogenic and xenon spacecraft that are both cooperative and non-cooperative in nature including the transfer of fuel.
USOS ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Groups (RFG) EVA. They completed EVA Tool Configuring, EVA Tool Audit, a Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) GN2 Check, an EVA Helmet Light Install, and a Rechargeable Extravehicular Battery Assembly (REBA) Powered Hardware Checkout. Yesterday, the RFG EVA was deferred from next Monday, October 30th to next Wednesday, November 1st to give the ground team more time to evaluate the effects of the Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) coolant leak.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Purge Pump & Separator Assembly (PPSA) Valve Inspection & Pump Remove & Replace (R&R): Over the last couple weeks, ground teams have seen a change in performance for the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). On Monday, the crew performed an R&R on the PPSA Separator and Filter Assembly within the UPA. However, this R&R was unsuccessful in clearing all UPA errors. On Friday, the crew continued activities to get the UPA back up and running. They completed a removal of the PPSA assembly from the UPA and a PPSA valve inspection to identify the health of the valves. Upon a healthy valve inspection, the crew proceeded with a PPSA Scroll Pump R&R and installed the PPSA back into the UPA. After ground reactivation, teams reported UPA is performing nominally and is GO for use.
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) LAD52B_A RPC 6 R&R: The crew completed an activity to R&R the RPCM LAD52B_A RPC 6. Following multiple trips of this RPC over the past couple months, the ground team decided to perform an R&R to avoid any potential loss of science due to a possible RPCM trip, which would cause a power down of the Video Synchronization and Control Unit 2 (SCU-2). The RPCM is the workhorse of the secondary power distribution system, containing solid-state or electromechanical switches, known as Remote Power Controllers (RPCs). RPCs can be remotely commanded to control the flow of power through the distribution network and to the users. The R&R was completed and the system is performing nominally.
