
USOS Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) #46:  Randy Bresnik (as EV1) and Joe Acaba (as EV2) successfully performed US EVA #46 with a Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of 6 hrs 49 min. The primary goals of the EVA were to Remove and Replace (R&R) a fuse in the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP), install an External High Definition Camera (EHDC) at the Camera Port 3 (CP3) location, and install a new Camera/Light Assembly (CLA) on the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector A (LEE A). The crew also removed Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) from an Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) and tied down an MLI Skirt on a spare Direct Current Switching Unit (DCSU). The crew also performed the following get ahead tasks: Lubrication of the LEE A Linear Bearings, Prep of two Pump Modules (PMs) by removing the MLI straps and tape used for launch loads, and T-Handle installation on the Port Radiator Grapple Bar (RGB).
Circadian Rhythms: The 51S crewmember removed and stowed the Double Sensors and Thermolab Unit equipment that was used to complete a 36 hour Circadian Rhythms session that began on Wednesday. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers. 
Space Headaches:  Today a 51S crewmember completed a weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 

