
Payloads:
Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath): After donning the BioMonitor sensor garment and setting up the appropriate hardware, the crew performed a Cardiobreath experiment session. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Cardiobreath studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
ISS Ham pass: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with Canterbury School of Fort Myers, Fort Myers, FL USA. Some of the questions asked by the students include how space debris affects the ISS and other satellites, if the sun looks different from the ISS compared to Earth, and if the crew would be willing to live on the moon. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): The MSG interior volume was accessed, and cleaning activities initiated to remove any remaining fiber fragments from previous fiber-optic experiments. MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen, and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Repository: Blood samples were gathered in support of the Repository investigation. The NASA Biological Specimen Repository (Repository) is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. Samples from the ISS, including blood and urine, are collected, processed, and archived during the preflight, in-flight and postflight phases of ISS missions. This investigation archives biosamples for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
Systems:
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test: Today, the crew performed eye exams using the Space Station Computer (SSC) Client. Eye exams are performed regularly on board in order to test visual acuity, visual field, and contrast sensitivity. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. The test was followed by a crew vision questionnaire.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. The crew also changed out the Waste Water Bag (WWB).
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: Several activities were performed by the crew in preparation for upcoming EVAs. EVA Li-Ion Battery charging was terminated, and the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBAs) were removed from the Battery Stowage Compartment and installed into the EVA Battery Operations Terminal for charging. The crew also installed the EVA Helmet Lights and cameras onto the EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Helmet. Lastly, EMUs 3009 and 3013 were resized and EMU hardware was pre-gathered for SpX-26 return.
On-Orbit Sampling: The crew deployed two Formaldehyde Monitoring Kits (FMKs) in designated sample locations for post-flight analysis of on-orbit formaldehyde levels. The crew also used a Grab Sample Container (GSC) to collect instantaneous air samples for post-flight analysis. Sampling is performed every 45 days.
EHS Surface Sample Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis: On October 17, the crew took surface and air samples using the SSK and MAS and incubated the samples on media slides and petri dishes and sorted them for return. These samples were incubated to give medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth in the air and on surfaces of the ISS. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products and propellants, microbial contaminants from crewmembers and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.
Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Gas Trap Installation: Following the removal of the Node 3 Gas Trap Plug last week to accommodate Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) sampling, the crew reinstalled the Gas Trap Plug. The Gas Trap Plugs are installed over the vent hole on all USOS PPA Gas Traps. They are installed to delay an ammonia breach into the cabin in the event of an interface heat exchanger (IFHX) rupture in addition to preventing ITCS fluid evaporation during an ISS contingency/end-of-life deorbit scenario.

