ISS On-Orbit Status 10/22/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 Upon wakeup, FE-1 Suraev quickly checked out the new aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which he installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) and hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).    [They will again be inspected tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Before breakfast, FE-5 Williams began Part 1 (of 5) of the periodic acoustic measurement protocol by deploying crew-worn acoustic dosimeters, to be carried by three crewmembers (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5) for 24 hours (with a microphone on the shirt collar).  (Last time done: 10/5-10/6).    [Tonight, after about 15 hours of measurements, dosimeter data will be downloaded and the hardware power-cycled for another data take starting tonight after 8.5-hr. sleep.  At that point, the crew will deploy the dosimeters statically in the station for the duration of the day, record measurements tomorrow noon and stow the instruments.  Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]
 
 Williams had Day 7 of the sleep shift sequence for the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS).     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following the sleep shift.]
 
 FE-3 Romanenko terminated his 10<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 Before breakfast &amp; exercise, Romanenko, Thirsk, Williams &amp; De Winne each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test "Hematokrit" (MO-10), which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  It was the first session for Jeff, the fifth for Roman, Bob &amp; Frank.     [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]
 
 Maxim Suraev &amp; Jeff Williams took the periodic CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) Emergency Health Maintenance System Contingency Drill training, which gives crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team in resolving a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS.   [The training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures.]
 
 Continuing FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack) outfitting in the US Lab, Nicole Stott installed hardware to support science activities, with the Node-1 video camera “watching”.     [Activities included opening the upper &amp; lower FCF (Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility) doors, installing the FIR Avionics package, the IPSU (Image Processing &amp; Storage Unit), White Light, FIR Smoke Detector &amp; Air Velocity Probe in the back of the Optics Bench, rotating &amp; translating the Optics Bench into position in the rack, installing the I/O (Input/Output) Processor HDDs (Hard Disk Drives), adjusting the EEU (Environmental Electronics Unit) Airflow Bypass, and closing the FCF doors.]
 
 In the SM (Service Module), Maxim Suraev performed a 4-hr maintenance job on the #1 loop (KOB-1) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, using a manual pump, hose adapters and a pressure gauge (VK-316M) to drain coolant and check pressures at various valve settings.  After the tests, which included an air flow and leak test, the loop’s initial status was restored.  Last time done: 9/4/08.     [Purpose: to determine the volume of free air in KOB-1 and check the leak tightness of the KOB-1 accumulator bellows; also: to perform preventive maintenance on the SOTR loops’ solenoid valves.]
 
 Supporting JAXA in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Stott updated procedure display files in the SLT (System Laptop Terminal) and verified their functionality.
 
 Jeff &amp; Nicole went through their second standard 30-min Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) onboard skill training, using D2X digital still cameras with 400 &amp; 800mm lenses to take Earth Observation imagery from Windows 6 or 8 in the SM, facing the velocity vector.  Afterwards, Jeff downlinked the obtained photographs for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle (STS-129/Atlantis) next month.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Atlantis, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]
 
 Starting a new round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Romanenko worked in the DC-1 (Docking Compartment), replacing the PF1 &amp; PF2 filter cartridges and cleaning the V1 &amp; V2 fan grilles and VD1 &amp; VD2 air ducts.
 
 The FE-3 also conducted the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s VU sediment trap insert.   [The Russian SRV-K2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water].
 
 Afterwards, Roman continued the extended leak integrity checking of the spare BZh Liquid Unit (#056) for the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator, recharged on 8/21 with nitrogen (N<sub>2</sub>) to 1 atm (1 kg/cm<sup>2</sup>), by conducting the usual pressure check and repressing to verify the unit’s hermeticity.    [Objective of the monthly checkout of the spare BZh, which has been in stowage since March 2007, is to check for leakage and good water passage through the feed line inside of the BZh (from ZL1 connector to the buffer tank) and to check the response of the Electronics Unit’s micro switches (signaling “Buffer Tank is Empty” &amp; “Buffer Tank is Full”.  During Elektron operation, the inert gas locked up in the BZh has the purpose to prevent dangerous O<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub> mixing.  A leaking BZh cannot be used.]
 
 FE-2 Stott performed the scheduled lens change on the EK (EarthKAM) system in Node-1, going from 50mm to 180mm focal length.  The lens change had to be performed on the day side while EK was not taking pictures, with Nicole able to see the ground when focusing the camera.     [EarthKAM was activated on 10/19 for a new session.  This is the 32<sup>nd</sup> time for EarthKAM aboard the ISS and the first time on Increment 21.  The payload runs without crew intervention.  EK is using a Kodak ESC 460C electronic still camera with 50mm and 180mm lenses, powered by 16Vdc from a 28V DC adapter, taking pictures by remote operation from the ground, without crew interaction.  It is available for students who submit image requests and conduct geographic research.  The requests are uplinked in a camera control file to the ThinkPad A31p laptop which then activates the camera at specified times and receives the digital images from the camera’s storage card on its hard drive, for subsequent downlink via OpsLAN. ]
 
 After the US A/L (Airlock “Quest”) was set up by ground commanding, Nicole terminated the regeneration of METOX (Metal Oxide) CO<sub>2</sub> absorption canisters #0005 &amp; #0013 and started the process in the A/L “bakeout” oven on the next batch, units #0019 &amp; #0020.    [METOX cans are used in the A/L and in EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units) to scrub carbon dioxide from the air.]
 
 Later, Jeff Williams also spent time in the A/L, terminating BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly) recharge on EMU batteries for the STS-129/ULF-3 EVAs and initiating the process on the second batch.
 
 Jeff Williams completed a checkout of and familiarization with the CMRS (Crew Medical Restraint System), working with CDR De Winne (who performed this task last month).    [The board-like CMRS allows strapping down a patient on the board with a harness for medical attention by the CMO (crew medical officer) who is also provided with restraints around the device.  CMRS can be secured to the ISS structure within two minutes to provide a patient restraint surface for performing emergency medical procedures, such as during ACLS (advanced cardiac life support).  It can also be used to transport a patient between the station and the Orbiter middeck.  It isolates the crew and equipment electrically during defibrillations and pacing electrical discharges, accommodates the patient in the supine zero-G positions, provides cervical spine stabilization and can also restrain two CMOs (Crew Medical Officers) at the same time during their delivery of medical care.]
 
 Jeff &amp; Frank then also performed a familiarization/checkout of the RSP (Respiratory Support Pack), inspecting it for any anomalies, with nominal result.
 
 FE-5 Williams did Day 2 of his first ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session.  Upon reaching the midpoint, Jeff ended the Cardiopres/BP (blood pressure) data collection, changed out the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF Card and AA Battery, and began the next 24-hour data collection, using the T2/COLBERT treadmill in a short-duration run at high &amp; low speeds to meet the ICV heart rate requirement.       [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices were worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres was doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 Afterwards, Jeff downloaded his HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) along with the T2 HRM data from Bob’s &amp; Nicole’s Actiwatches.
 
 CDR De Winne performed maintenance on his current sleep station, the TeSS (Temporary Sleep Station) in the US Lab (loc. S1), removing its old enclosure blankets (11), cleaning the station with the vacuum cleaner and installing 11 new blankets from an HTV-delivered CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag).    [Regular sleep stations are in the SM (Max, Roman), Node-2 (Nicole, Jeff), and JPM (Bob).]
 
 Frank performed troubleshooting on the new EHS TEPC (Environmental Health System - Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter) backup unit which was delivered recently but is not working properly.    [Steps taken today included inspection of the detector cable connections for damage and photography, installation of the prime unit’s cable on the backup unit, and letting the latter then run 5-7 days while the ground reviews downlinked telemetry and changes hardware parameters via remote commanding.]
 
 After preparing Node-2 for the scheduled OpsLAN (Operations Local Area Network) outfitting, FE-4 Thirsk had ~2.5 hrs reserved for deploying the first of two new T61p laptops and configuring it with the software (Ultrabay #1012, HDD #1061) to become the new ISS-SERVER1 for the Expedition 21 OpsLAN program.  A second T61p will join it as ISS-SERVER 2.
 
 Thirsk also performed the weekly “T+2d” inflight microbiology analyses for the potable water samples collected on 10/20 in the SM for chemical and microbial analysis from the SVO-ZV tap and the SRV-K Warm tap.    [In-flight sample analysis was performed with the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit/Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for inflight coliform indications (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).]
 
 Roman did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 The FE-3 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Bob &amp; Frank again had several hours for transferring &amp; unpacking US cargo from Progress 35P.
 
 FE-4 donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation, and FE-2 Stott then took front &amp; rear photography.  Afterwards, they switched, and Bob took imagery of Nicole’s SDTO (Station Development Test Objective) treadmill harness.
 
 Williams &amp; Suraev each had an hour to themselves again for general orientation (station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
 As part of ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout) of COLBERT Stott, Thirsk &amp; Williams performed short-duration runs on T2, Nicole long-duration, Bob &amp; Jeff short-duration at high &amp; low speeds, shutting the treadmill down afterwards.  The sessions were video-recorded for ground analysis.
 
 The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3,), T2/COLBERT treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5). 
 
 Afterwards, Frank transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 At ~11:35am EDT, Nicole had her weekly PFC (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 At ~12:00pm, the FE-2 also conducted the periodic VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today at the Dryden (12:00pm-12:08pm) and White Sands (12:03pm-12:10pm) VHF sites, talking with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation &amp; Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).    [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).
 
 At ~1:35pm, De Winne, Thirsk &amp; Williams participated in a PAO TV event, engaging in a Q&amp;A exchange with guests, teachers, parents and 1500 students at Powell River School in British Columbia, Canada, sponsored by the CSA (Canadian Space Agency)’s Space Learning Program.  In attendance were also Bob Thirsk’s mother and third-grade teacher.
 
 At ~2:50pm, Maxim conducted a phone conference with ground specialists discussing the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program, based on NIKON D2X digital camera photography (with 800mm telelens).
 
 At ~5:20pm, just before sleep time, FE-1 Suraev will set up the Russian MBI-12 SONOKARD payload and start his first experiment session, using a sports shirt from the SONOKARD kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked last night to the crew for their reference, updated with yesterday’s CWC (Collapsible Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (21-0028A) lists 79 CWCs (~1,804.9 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (66 CWCs with 1,420.7 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 187.4 L for flushing only due to Wautersia bacteria &amp; 176.2 L in 4 clean bags for contingency use, 2. potable water (8 CWCs with 323.1 L, of which 194.8 L (5 bags) are currently off-limit pending ground analysis results), the remainder good for contingency use, 3. condensate water (3 CWCs, empty), 4. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 61.1 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Porto Praya, Santiago, Cape Verde Island (HMS Beagle site.  In the horseshoe of the Cape Verde Island chain, Santiago is the largest island with Porto Praya located at the southern tip.  Darwin begins his Journal at this island.  It is reported that he was "fascinated by his first sight of tropical vegetation and by the volcanic island's geology."), Simon's Bay, Cape Point, S. Africa (HMS Beagle site.  Looking left of track.  The most important aspect of this stop appears to have been Darwin's visit to the noted astronomer Sir John Herschel who lived near Cape Town.  Darwin called this "the most memorable event which, for a long period, I have had the good fortune to enjoy."  Both Darwin and Herschel had read the Lyell's famous Principles of Geology.  Their discussion is not recorded, but they were thinking along similar lines: a few months earlier Herschel had written to Lyell praising the Principles as "a complete revolution in [its] subject, … altering entirely the point of view" in which scientists would think about geology; and as opening a way for bold speculation on "that mystery of mysteries, the replacement of extinct species by others."  CEO team has reviewed previous ISS imagery of this area and re-requested this target), Iquique, Chile (H.M.S. Beagle Site: The Beagle arrived at Iquique on July of 1835. Darwin reported the "the town contains about a thousand inhabitants and stands on a little plain of sand at the foot of a great wall of rock ..." As of 2002 Iquique was reported to have a population of 216,419.  It has one of the largest duty-free commercial port centers of South America.  Looking right of track towards the coast for this city),and Lake Poopo, Bolivia (preliminary review of ISS/CEO imagery taken on 10/16 &amp; 10/17 shows the regional view that was requested.  Observers would now like more detailed views of Lake Poopo.  The lake was left of track.  Lake levels in Poopo are generally affected by El Niño episodes with water levels declining during ENSO (El Niño Southern Oscillation) events.  CEO imagery will also add to existing time series imagery of the fluctuations of lake levels in Poopo.  Overlapping imagery of the lake shore and lake is requested).
 
 
