
Veg-03 Wick Opening: FE-3 opened the wicks on the plant pillows to allow for better growth capability.  The overall goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long-duration missions into the solar system, finally culminating on Mars, will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which means growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments, but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and International Space Station made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the new Veggie hardware, which crew members will soon use to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables in space. Tests determine which types of microorganisms are present in space-grown cabbage, providing baseline data for future crop-growing efforts.  Behavioral health surveys assess the impact of growing plants on crew morale and mood.
RapidScat Survey Performed – Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) were maneuvered through 13 RapidScat observations points. RapidScat engineers guided robotics ground controllers through pan/tilt/zoom operations for both the SSRMS tip elbow and SPDM body 1 and 2 cameras. Ground personnel’s review of the imagery to assess potential MMOD damage is forecast by the end of November.
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) Replacement: Last week, pressure sensors inside the PCPA detected a rise in pressure during a UPA process cycle. Review of data by the UPA specialist indicates that the PCPA has failed. Today, the crew removed the failed PCPA and replaced it with one of the two spares currently onboard.  UPA is currently in standby while the system is being configurated for a UPA process run.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning:  Prior to departure on Saturday FE-5 and FE-6 cleaned the Starboard and Deck CQs. The activity includes cleaning of the intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.
Change of Command:  The Change of Command ceremony was held to hand over control of the ISS from current ISS CDR Anatoly Ivanishin to Shane Kimbrough.  Following the Change of Command, the new Commander’s Soyuz (48S) crew becomes the prime crew for emergencies and the departing Soyuz (47S) crew becomes the non-prime crew.  During the Change of Command event, the entire crew discussed their roles and responsibilities for the timeframe between the Change of Command event and the departure of the Soyuz. 
Loss of Joint Station LAN-2 (JSL-2) Return Link – Yesterday there was a loss of JSL-2 return link that impacted all payloads utilizing Ku-Internet Protocol capability. The Ku-band Communications Unit (KCU)-1 Network 2 Card was power cycled and the JSL-2 Return Link was successfully recovered.

