
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded Astronaut logs for the ISS Experience study. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Ring Sheared Drop: The crew reviewed procedures and subsequently performed a test cell removal of the existing syringe followed by the installation of a new syringe test cell into the ring assembly. The Ring Sheared Drop investigation uses microgravity to examine the formation and flow of amyloids in the absence of surface tension and other complications created by the solid walls of a container. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues, amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L): The crew inserted the Control equipment into the facility inside the Saibo Rack. Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Systems: 
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)8 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued with HTV8 cargo transfer operations.  Today’s cargo transfers will facilitate additional rack transfers in the future. This week, the crew will continue to focus on HTV8 cargo operations in preparation for HTV8 close out and departure late next week.
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEP) Inspection: Today, the crew performed the periodic PEP inspection, which involves utilizing a PEPs matrix and inspecting various emergency provisions such as the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Quick Don Mask (QDM), and Extension Hose Tee Assemblies at multiple locations throughout the space station.  The crew spends several minutes on each item and notes any visible damage.  Inspections are performed routinely to ensure the PEPs are in good operational condition.

