
Lighting Effects:  A 51S crewmember conducted a Visual Performance Test by stowing the hardware in their crew quarters, setting the light to the correct mode, turning all other light sources in the crew quarters off, and performing a Numerical Verification Test and a Color Discrimination Test. The completed tests were photographed and downlinked. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Astronaut Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): Today a 51S crewmember initiated Day 0 activities to support the Energy investigation. The subject donned an armband monitor, set up the Pulmonary Function System (PFS) hardware, and began eating a controlled diet. For this part of the investigation, additionally, a control subject participated, with both crewmembers collecting urine samples at approximately the same time over the next 11 days (Day 0 through Day 10). The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Nine astronauts will be examined during exercise and rest cycles three months before launch, three months after arriving at space station and adapting to the space environment, and after return to Earth. Physicians will measure metabolic rates, urine content, and bone density to determine energy needs.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from the Russian crewmembers, a USOS crewmember deployed eight Space Bubble Detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N experiment. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation will be conducted by measuring neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): Today a 52S crewmember completed Flight Day (FD) 30 urine and blood sample collections in support of the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples are obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

NanoRacks Kestrel Eye Satellite Preparation and Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Installation: Using the maintenance work area (MWA), the crew prepared the Kestrel Eye satellite for deployment by attaching the satellite to the Kaber, and on the JEM Airlock slide table, the crew attached the Kaber to the JEM CLPA Adapter Plate (JCAP). Following the Kestrel Eye satellite installation, the crew took measurements to ensure that the hardware was within tolerance of the JEM A/L deployment envelope.  The measurements exceeded the tolerances by a small amount, so ground teams are discussing a forward plan.  A decision is expected later this evening.  In the meantime, the slide table was retracted in manual mode and the inner hatch was closed. The JEM A/L has been depressurized.  NanoRacks-SMDC-Kestrel Eye IIM (NanoRacks-KE IIM) is a microsatellite carrying an optical imaging system payload, including a commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) telescope. The investigation validates the concept of using microsatellites in low-Earth orbit to support critical operations. An overall goal is to demonstrate that small satellites are viable platforms for providing critical path support to operations and hosting advanced payloads.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew performed an R&R of the WHC urine receptacle and insert filter. Following the R&R a successful WHC functionality test was performed. 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  On Saturday, Robotic Ground Controllers walked the SSRMS onto the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 1 (PDGF1). They then maneuvered the SSRMS to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from MBS PDGF2. On Sunday, the SSRMS maneuvered to support a survey of the Neutron Star Interior Composition ExploreR (NICER) and Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) using the SPDM Camera Light Pan/Tilt Unit (PTU) Assemblies (CLPAs).  Finally, the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite 2 (WS2) to WS7 and the SPDM and SSRMS were configured for the start of the Kaber / Kestral Eye 2M deploy. 

