
BEST (Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology):  The crew performed BEST experiment operations part 2 involving the transfer of cells from the Media Kit to the new Media Tubes using pipettes and then temp stowed for the next 5-10 days. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack): The crew did a full replacement of the FCF CIR image processor (IPSUG) due to a previous failure of the hard drive. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity.
CASIS PCG 19: The crew inserted PCG 19 vial samples located in Ziplock bags into the Box Module inside the MELFI (Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS) Rack for a 12 week period. The crew took photos of the transfer. This investigation seeks to understand the stability of monoclonal antibody formulations in microgravity. When these formulations degrade and exceed their shelf life, they must be discarded. This leads to increased cost and reduces the areas of the world where the formulations can be offered to patients. By storing formulations in microgravity, it may be possible to see additional processes that lead to degradation. Researchers hope that an understanding of the degradation process could lead to methods of slowing the degradation down.
Veg-04B: The crew performed a plant status check and setup the hardware for the upcoming Mass measurement Device setup. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-0404A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Exploration Demonstration Charcoal/HEPA Filters (CHIPS): The crew replaced three Airlock HEPA and Charcoal filters in the aft Deck standoff and cleaned the IMV air return screens of the Airlock Duct Selector Panel. Installing the filters on ISS is a key objective for maturing the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) systems for exploration vehicles to improve the understanding how they impact various systems such as condensing heat exchanger lifetime, Water Processor Assembly (WPA) efficiency and lifetime, and other hardware downstream of the Common Cabin Air Assembly Heat Exchanger (CCAA HX).
Systems:
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations:  Following last week’s EVA, the ISS crew has worked on multiple Post EVA activities. Today’s activities consisted of refurbishing the Metal Oxide (Metox) canisters by baking out the CO2 in the Metox Regenerator Oven. Also known as the Metox Regen, this activity prepares the canisters for the next EVA.

