
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Troubleshooting: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins and FE-6 Nyberg removed and replaced the EMU 3011 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Assembly. The R&R is part of an ongoing troubleshooting effort stemming from an issue experienced with the suit during USOS EVA #23, when water leaked into Parmitano’s helmet. The new pump which was installed today was recently launched onboard Soyuz 36S. Pump priming and Screen Testing is scheduled to occur on Friday, October 25.
Biological Rhythms 48 Hour Experiment: As part of the continuing JAXA Biological Rhythms 48 hour experiment, FE-6 Nyberg terminated the first 24-hour measurement, exchanged the Multi Media Card and battery, and started the latter 24 hour measurement. Data for this portion of the experiment is being taken from the Digital Walk Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) and attached sensors that Nyberg donned yesterday.  This study examines the circadian variation of astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight. The research is expected to provide insight into changes in those functions before, during, and after long-duration space flight and may be used to improve the health care technology used for future ISS crewmembers.
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope: FE-3 Hopkins continued his Flight Day 30 Ocular Health session with a Fundoscope eye examination.  FE-5 Parmitano, performing as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), administered drops for dilation of Hopkin’s pupils and then performed the Fundscope examination.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular, and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Completion of Circadian Rhythms Session: FE-5 Parmitano’s final 36 hour Circadian Rhythms session was extended after he noticed that the Thermolab unit had unexpectedly powered off.  After application of tape over the battery cover, the Thermolab unit remained powered and ground teams elected to continue the experiment for an additional 24 hours.  Tomorrow he will remove the Actiwatch and Thermolab instrumentation from his body. The ESA Circadian Rhythms experiment examines the role of synchronized circadian rhythms (the human body’s 24 hour light-dark cycle) and its maintenance during long duration spaceflight. Understanding how changes in body composition, body temperature regulation, and physical activity affect circadian rhythms will support development of enhancements for performance and health care of future crewmembers.

