
48 Soyuz (48S) Dock: 48S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome on Wednesday, October 19th, and docked to the ISS this morning bringing Ryzhikov, Borisenko, and Kimbrough to the ISS. Docking to the Mini Research Module-2 (MRM-2) module was completed at 4:53 am CDT with hatch opening at 7:20 am CDT. Today’s docking increases the ISS crew complement from 3 to 6 crewmembers. 
Airway Monitoring Preparations: FE-6 reviewed training material then prepared the Joint Airlock for next week’s Airway Monitoring by removing the Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Units (EMUs), and gathering and configuring hardware for next Tuesday’s reduced pressure measurement session in the Airlock. The Airway Monitoring investigation studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This helps to highlight any health impacts and to maintain crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, especially longer-duration missions to the Moon and Mars for example, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in highlighting and avoiding such conditions.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: FE-5 performed Return minus 14 (R-14) blood collections and started an R-14 24-hour urine collection for several NASA and Canadian Space Agency (CSA) HRP experiments. Blood vials were filled and placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) in support of Biochemical Profile, Repository, Cardio Ox, CSA Marrow, and CSA Vascular Echo. Urine collections supported Biochemical Profile, Repository, and Cardio Ox.  The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. Cardio Ox attempts to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on the bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. Vascular Echo experiment investigates the stiffening of the arteries and increased blood pressure (hypertension) observed in some returning ISS crewmembers.  By observing the changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space and following their recovery on return to Earth, investigators hope to provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life. 
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) Installation: FE-5 installed the JAXA PCG canisters, delivered this morning to the ISS by the 48Soyuz capsule, into the Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF) of the Ryutai Rack.  The PCG experiment attempts to obtain high quality protein crystals in the microgravity environment.  Results from the PCG experiment will contribute to the development of pharmaceuticals for multidrug-resistant bacteria, Alzheimer’s disease, and muscular dystrophy.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) Operations: Today, the crew performed a second demating of the connection between the Fluid Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) and PCPA at Quick Disconnect 27 (QD27), which is located on the PCPA. This activity was first performed on October 7th, and additional data is needed to determine whether the FCPA is the source of the high conductivity seen in the UPA distillate. 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Solid State Lighting Assembly (SSLA) Installation:  Today, FE-6 installed SSLAs into the Port and Overhead CQs. The SSLAs were designed to replace General Luminaire Assemblies (GLAs) to improve visual acuity and to provide a crew health countermeasure for circadian rhythms, sleep, alertness and performance. To accomplish these goals, SSLAs are designed to operate in 3 modes with 3 distinct spectrum. The different spectrum provide control of the blue portion of the light which impacts melatonin production in humans which impacts sleep.

