
Vascular Blood Collection Operations:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg performed a blood sample collection by self-phlebotomy.  The blood sample was then spun in the Refrigerated Centrifuge followed by inserting the sample into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  This is Nyberg’s final blood draw, completing her in-flight Vascular sessions. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) research is performed to determine the impact of long-duration space flight on the blood vessels of astronauts. Space flight accelerates the aging process and data from this activity may help determine the need for specific countermeasures.  Data for Vascular is collected before, during and after space flight to assess inflammation of the artery walls, and changes in blood vessel properties and cardiovascular fitness.
Skin-B Investigation:  FE-5 Parmitano connected the Skin B instruments to a laptop in the Columbus module and performed Corneometer, Tewameter, and Visioscan measurements on his forearm. This is Parmitano’s final Skin-B session.  The European Space Agency’s (ESA) Skin-B investigation may improve the understanding of skin aging, which is accelerated in space. This investigation may also provide insights into the aging process in organs covered with epithelial and connective tissue which adapt and age over time under the physical stresses imposed by the environment.  Skin-B data may be used in predicting impacts on astronauts of even more challenging environmental conditions during future missions to the moon and mars.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1 Sample Setup: Parmitano homogenized the 3rd of CSA BCAT-C1 samples while images of the activity were captured. The CSA BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in a liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions have the unique property that the particles phase separate and then self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light. Photographing these samples in microgravity allows the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity.
Extravehicular (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: FE-3 Hopkins performed the regularly scheduled EMU cooling loop maintenance. The activity includes powering up and configuring EMU 3011 and 3015 for ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing). In addition, Biocidal maintenance (iodination) were performed on the EMUs and the Airlock cooling water loops. During the EMU 3015 loop scrub, the ground experienced a loss of data using the primary EMU radio. The loop scrub continued nominally on the alternate radio with no impact.  Ground teams are reviewing the suit telemetry.
Cygnus Status: Cygnus Re-entry Delta-V (RDV) burn was initiated at 12:41pm CDT today.  The vehicle crossed the entry interface and destructively re-entered the atmosphere off the coast of New Zealand at approximately 1:16pm CDT.  The re-entry was not visible from the ISS.

