
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Blood pressure measurements were performed in support of the current CIPHER science activities. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1): Repairs of the HRF-1 centrifuge were completed and a checkout spin was performed. This was the second activity to inspect the centrifuge and repair a broken latch. The centrifuge is typically used to process blood samples in support of multiple experiments. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Transparent Alloys: Following the completion of the planned science runs, the processed Metastable Solidification of Composites: Novel Peritectic Structures and In-Situ Composites-2 (METCOMP-2) cartridge was removed, and the Solidification along a Eutectic Path in Binary Alloys-3 (SEBA-3) cartridge was installed. The materials-science paradigm asserts that the microstructure of a material determines its mechanical properties. Metallic materials, however, are opaque. To allow direct observations of crystallization processes, organic substances are used in the experiment as a model. These organic materials allow insight since the melt is translucent, but the crystals are not. The Transparent Alloys-SEBA investigation studies the suppressed buoyancy and flow in sample materials in a microgravity environment onboard the ISS that effectively eliminates disturbing effects on the solidification mechanisms.
Vascular Aging: Blood pressure monitoring was performed in support of a Vascular Aging science session. Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems:
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for two upcoming EVAs coming at the end of October. They completed a Tool Gather for the Russian EVA, a Trundle Bearing Assembly Checkout and Preparation activity, and an RFG EVA Tool Configuration activity. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Russian EVA 61 on Wednesday, October 25th and the upcoming USOS Radio Frequency Groups (RFG) EVA on Monday, October 30th.
Node 3 Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Heat Exchanger Inspection: The crew performed a wettability test on the degraded CCAA Heat Exchanger removed from Node 3 on GMT 223 in hopes that it can act as a healthy on-board spare. This inspection ran through a procedure to test the Heat Exchanger Slurper Bars for a hydrophilic response. However, upon inspection, it was determined that the Slurper Bars are no longer hydrophilic, rendering the Heat Exchanger unusable as a spare.
Crew-7 Makeup Gas Transfer: The ground team performed a makeup gas transfer on board the Crew-7 Dragon vehicle with short crew activities to configure and deconfigure the Dragon suits for the gas transfer. The gas transfer was performed to further validate Dragon’s emergency capabilities by obtaining long duration, deep system blowdown performance data in zero-G. 
Visiting Vehicle Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo operations in preparation for the NG-19 unberth until December. Trash was gathered following the ground-provided procedure. The crew also continued cargo prepack operations in preparation for the arrival of the SpX-29 cargo vehicle. SpX-29 is planned to arrive in early November and remain at the space station for 30 days before returning safely to Earth.
