
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): The crew gathered the appropriate hardware and installed the APM in the US lab at the LAB1D1 location.  Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM) demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Light Ions Detector for ALTEA (LIDAL):  The LIDAL hardware was removed last week in support of the ESA Water on-off Valve-8 (WOOV8) replacement.  Although further WOOV8 activities will be required, they will not occur for another 1-2 weeks, so LIDAL was reinstalled to resume science gathering.  The capability of the original Anomalous Long Term Effects in Astronauts (ALTEA) to measure the linear energy transfer (LET) of protons and helium and the kinetic energy of protons and heavy ions was upgraded by the addition of the time of flight (TOF) system detector called LIDAL. LIDAL upgrades the ability of ALTEA to make measurements that can be converted, by dedicated software in real-time, into radiation risk coefficients – effectively enabling ALTEA to become the first ever dosimetric “risk meter” aboard the International Space Station.
Manufacturing Device (ManD):  The crew removed the printed object, cleaned the extruder print nozzle, photographed, and stow the printed object.  The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. ManD is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The crew continued the PK-4 science campaign 13 by initiating several science runs.  PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas:  low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles.  The main feature of the PK-4 facility (in comparison with its predecessors onboard the ISS, such as PK-3 and PK-3+) is a new concept of its discharge chamber. Application of a combined discharge that consists of a direct current discharge, inductive HF discharge and capacitive HF discharge allows varying the topology of studied plasma-dust formations in a wide range.
Vascular Aging: The crew collected blood samples and performed a glucose tolerance test in support of the Vascular Aging investigation.  Although the session went well, the ground will need to work through some data transfer issues.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems: 
Dragon Return Prep:  Today, the Crew-2 Dragon crew performed activities in preparation for the Crew-2 undock and return, including Dragon Prepack and Dragon Rendezvous OBT. The Dragon2 Crew-2 is scheduled to undock and return on November 4th.
Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Installation:  The crew installed REBA Li-Ion Batteries into EMU 3015 (Aft EDDA) and EMU 3004 (Fwd EDDA).
Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) Filter Installation: The crew removed the Brine Processor Temporary Filter and installed the new Exhaust Filter Housing and Filter to scrub odor from Brine Processor in Node 3. The BPA is designed to improve water recycling on the ISS and boost the efficiency of water recycling for the Artemis generation.
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) LAB1S6 Removed and Replaced (R&R): The crew completed the R&R RPCM LAB1S6 which powers the  Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA)/Low-Temperature Loop (LTL)/Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Thermal Control System (TCS) Rack.

