
Russian ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) #61: Today, FE-4 Oleg Kononenko (EV1) and FE-5 Nikolai Chub (EV2) are performing Russian EVA #61 with FE-12 Konstantin Borisov supporting as the Intravehicular (IV) Operator. The EV crew are performing tasks in order to inspect and isolate the Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) radiator, install a payload on MLM, and jettison a nanosatellite. The MRM2 hatch opened at 12:49 PM CDT and the crew are progressing through the following tasks:

Isolate the MLM radiator from [НГК1] and [НГК2] external thermal loops
Inspect the MLM radiator leak location using Strela-1 with the extender
Install the payload adapter and the Mini Radar with Synthetic Aperture (MiniRSA) payload on MLM [УФП2]
Deploy PARUS-MGTU nanosatellite from MLM Pl.III
Remove & replace the connector patch panels from the Portable Multipurpose Workstation [УРМ-Д] on SM Pl.II and Pl.IV and jettison the removed connector patch panels (time permitting)

The Total Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of this EVA is scheduled to be 6 hours and 52 minutes.
Payloads:
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed in support of this continuing investigation. Circadian Light tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Sleep in Orbit: The science session was concluded and the hardware was stowed. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-electroencephalography (EEG) based sleep monitoring. A baseline picture of the individual astronaut’s natural sleep on Earth is established based on sleep recording before and after a space mission. This baseline picture is compared to the sleep patterns observed during missions to the ISS.
Snowcone Cloud Edge Compute Demonstration (Snowcone):  In preparation for a software load, the crew powered up the Snowcone system. Snowcone demonstrations focus on commercial and government interests in computing, storage, and transfer of data within the low Earth orbit network. These demonstrations explore various capabilities related to data fusion, artificial intelligence and machine learning, cyber security, and communications from a variety of partners.
SpaceWear Monitor: In preparation for a session later in the week, the experiment hardware batteries were charged overnight. The purpose of the Demonstration of a Wearable for Space and Extreme Environments (SpaceWear Monitor) technology demonstration is to prove the functionality of the Wearable Health Monitoring System by a crew member aboard the ISS. This is achieved by collecting data for analysis on the following parameters: G-loads (when worn during launch/landing), electrocardiogram (ECG) using one lead, heart rate, heart rate variability, respiratory rates, and skin temperature.
Systems:
USOS EVA Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Groups (RFG) EVA, scheduled for Monday, October 30th. They completed EVA Tool Configuring, an EVA Procedure Review, a Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Installation, a group Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) Session, and Battery Charging for the EVA Cameras.
Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo prepack operations in preparation for the arrival of the SpX-29 cargo vehicle. They also completed stowage consolidation in the JEM to prepare for upcoming SpX-29 cargo. SpX-29 is planned to arrive in November and remain at the space station for 30 days before returning safely to Earth. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. 
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Backup EDV Swap: Today, the crew changed out the backup EDV in the UTS. EDV are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from the Toilet System and Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
