
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Ingress and Sampling: FE-6 stowed the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) then opened Node3 Aft hatch to ingress the BEAM.  Once inside, the crew collected Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) and Surface Sample Kit (SSK) microbial and surface samples and deployed the Radiation Area Monitors (RAMs) delivered on 48Soyuz (48S).  The RAMs will remain in BEAM through the end of Increment 50, when they will return for analysis on 48S.  The SSK and MAS samples will return on 47S for ground analysis.  Following sample collection, FE-6 closed the hatch and returned ARED to its nominal configuration.  BEAM is an experimental expandable capsule that berths with the ISS. After docking, BEAM inflates to roughly 13 feet long and 10.5 feet in diameter to provide a habitable volume where a crew member can enter.
Airway Monitoring: FE-5 changed out the Low and High Nitric Oxide (NO) Analyzer sensors, then proceeded with configuring the cameras and experiment hardware for the reduced pressure data collection session tomorrow.  The primary goal of the Airway Monitoring experiment is to determine how gravity and microgravity influence the turnover of Nitric Oxide (NO) in the lungs.  During future manned missions to the Moon and to Mars, airway inflammation due to toxic dust inhalation is a risk factor. Since dust may cause airway inflammation and since such inflammation can be monitored by exhaled NO (Nitric Oxide) analysis, the present study is highly relevant for astronaut health in future space programs.
Radiation Area Monitor (RAM) Deploy:  The crew installed 17 Area Dosimeter throughout the ISS to measure space radiation. They took photographs of each Area Dosimeter for ground verification purposes.
FLame EXtinguishment (FLEX)-2 Operations: FE-3 removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides to enable ground teams to initiate the FLEX-2 experiment.  Following the troubleshooting and checkout that occurred last week, ground teams plan to run the experiment using decane fuel for four weeks.     
The Flame Extinguishment – 2 (FLEX-2) experiment is the second experiment to fly on the ISS which uses small droplets of fuel to study the special spherical characteristics of burning fuel droplets in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies how quickly fuel burns, the conditions required for soot to form, and how mixtures of fuels evaporate before burning. Understanding these processes could lead to the production of a safer spacecraft as well as increased fuel efficiency for engines using liquid fuel on Earth. 
Cygnus Ingress:  Cygnus ingress was scheduled to occur on Thursday, October 27th.  However, yesterday the crew was able to get ahead with the Cygnus activities and they removed the Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs) and opened the Cygnus hatch.
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) High Pressure Anomaly: During a UPA process cycle yesterday, two pressure sensors inside the PCPA showed a rise in pressure values. Ground Controllers pre-emptively took the UPA to standby, and then to shutdown to avoid having the Fault Detection Isolation and Recovery (FDIR) take action. Currently the UPA is in a stable configuration. Initial review of data by the UPA specialist indicates that the PCPA may have failed. There are two spare PCPAs on orbit and a third launching on OA-7. The Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) will be configured from supplying UPA to internal EDV. 

