
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-4 Undocking:  ATV-4 successfully undocked from the Service Module at 03:54 am CDT this morning.  The ISS crew monitored and took photographs of the undocking. ATV-4 delivered more than 2489 kg of cargo to the ISS when it arrived on June 15th and will be disposing of more than 2160 kg.  ATV-4’s final de-orbit burn prior to destructive reentry is scheduled to occur at 06:28am Saturday, November 2nd.
Spinal Ultrasound Scans:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg performed as the operator conducting the first Spinal Ultrasound Scan session on FE-3 Hopkins with remote guidance from the ground team. This investigation aims to characterize microgravity-associated spinal alterations during and after spaceflight using in-flight ultrasound. Results from this research will provide data to enhance crew health for long duration space missions.
NanoRacks Module 9: FE-5 Parmitano activated and shook designated mixing tubes while capturing video of his activities.  This investigation is a result of a commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE), called the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP). Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of 17 different science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the ISS.
Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect Against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) Diet:  All three USOS crewmembers continued with their Pro K diet today.  All performed a urine pH test and updated the log of food and beverages consumed while on the controlled diet. Each crewmember will perform these activities multiple times during their stay onboard ISS.  This is NASA’s first evaluation of a dietary countermeasure to lessen bone loss of astronauts. The results of this study will be used to determine if a decreased ratio of animal protein to potassium will lead to a decreased loss of bone mineral.  Pro K findings may impact the definition of nutritional requirements and development of food systems for future exploration missions and could yield a method of counteracting bone loss with no risk of side effects.

