
Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System (MARES): Gerst configured cabling, set up and activated the European Physiology Module (EPM) laptop in support of future MARES activities scheduled for later this year.
Ocular Health: Gerst conducted his Return minus 30 day Ocular Health tests. With Wiseman as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO) operator, the ultrasonic eye imaging was taken followed by an echocardiogram with guidance from the Ocular Health ground team.  Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery. Information gathered will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ocular Health (OH):  Wiseman and Gerst continued their Return-30 day OH sessions including ocular ultrasounds and an echocardiogram for Gerst.
SPRINT:  The Crew set up the Ultrasound 2 equipment to support Wiseman’s Sprint Flight Day 150 session.  The Ultrasound Muscle Volume Scan activities were performed with remote guidance from ground team. Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Bilogical Rythyms 48 hrs: Wilmore relocated and performed a checkout of laptop computers in preparation for the JAXA Biorythyms 48 hour experiment.  The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function in space flight. The crew will wear an Actiwatch for 96 hours and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48 hours.  The crew conducts two in-flight data collections.
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 40 Cleanup: Following yesterday’s long day due to the successful EVA, the crew wake time was delayed by 3.5 hours, resulting in a shortened duty day for the entire crew.  Suraev and Samukutyaev performed post-EVA operations including suit drying, loop refilling, and post-EVA conferences.  

