ISS On-Orbit Status 10/28/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the new aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which he installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR De Winne, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 Williams continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), wearing their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Working in the SM (Service Module) on the ASN-M satellite navigation system, FE-1 Suraev removed the two NPM-1 &amp; NPM-2 navigation receiver modules behind panel 388 and secured them on structural elements, then cleared out the space behind them and cinched the cabling.  Objective: to provide more favorable thermal &amp; acoustic conditions and also to facilitate maintenance of the ASN-M NPM modules and the BKS cable network.     [The ASN-M satellite navigation system, Russia’s equivalent of the U.S. GPS, was required for the arrival of the European ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) “Jules Verne” last year.  The navigation electronics modules NPM-3 &amp; NPM-4 were removed from behind panel 388 on 3/30/09.]
 
 FE-2 Stott set up the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, left deployed in a temporary stow configuration yesterday by Bob Thirsk, and performed her first session of the VO<sub>2</sub>Max assessment.  Later, Nicole downloaded experiment data, then tore down and put away the hardware.    [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>Max uses the PPFS, CEVIS cycle, PFS gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol comprises 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 250-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cooldown period follows at the 25% load.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
 As first step toward the planned transition of the PCS (Portable Computer System) in  the USOS (US Segment) to the new T61p laptops next week, FE-5 Williams had ~3 hrs set aside for imaging (“ghosting”) six T61p laptops with PCS software.  He then restowed the machines until their deployment next week.
 
 CDR De Winne began his workday by taking on the periodic deployment of four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307) for two days, to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.] 
 
 In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), De Winne performed activation &amp; checkout steps on the new ESA FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device), with the IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) accelerometer installed beforehand by Thirsk for dynamics measurement.  For the checkout exercise, Frank had warmed up with the ARED.  Later, the CDR powered down the equipment, disassembled the FWED and stowed it in CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags).     [Steps included connecting the MPPL (Multipurpose Laptop)’s 16V DC power cable to the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop, preparation of the FWED PCMCIA memory card in the EPM with the FWED configuration file, powering on the FWED and its laptop, installing the CDR’s subject files, performing 5 exercise modes with handgrips, returning the PCMCIA to the EPM and transferring the data files for downlink to the ground via EPM.  The 16V DC power cable was then disconnected from the EPM and reconnected to the MPPL.  The SAMS SE (Space Acceleration Measurement System Sensor Enclosure, F02) was detached from the forward FWED foot and stowed in the SAMS RTS (Remote Triaxial Sensor) Drawer 2 in the ER-4 (EXPRESS 4 Rack) in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).]
 
 In the JAXA, Nicole continued her support of the SPACE SEED experiment in the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility), today sampling the air inside the Micro-G IU (Incubator Unit).
 
 Also in the Kibo module, Nicole worked on the MDS (Mice Drawer System), first taking three noise readings with the SLM (Sound Level Meter) in the vicinity of the MDS with its muffler in place.  Then, after removing the (Velcro-attached) muffler later, new SLM measurements will be taken and the data downloaded.  The muffler will be stowed for 24 hrs to see if this reduces humidity inside the animal facility.    [Note:  MDS external noise levels without muffler have earlier (on the ground) been determined at ~58.2 dBA, which is below the 65 dBA continuous noise level requiring the use of hearing protection on ISS.]
 
 In the US Airlock, the FE-2 terminated the charging of EVA batteries for STS-129/ULF3 in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly).
 
 Using the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, Maxim Suraev performed the standard check on the SM cabin air for Carbon Monoxide, Formaldehyde and Sulphur Dioxide.    [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C<sub>8</sub>H<sub>10</sub>), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur dioxide, Hydrogen cyanide, Phosgene, etc.],
 
 The FE-1 also worked with the Russian IPD-NH<sub>3</sub> Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the cabin air for NH<sub>3</sub> (ammonia, from possible urine spillage), followed by the periodic air sampling with the AK-1M adsorber around the SM work table and in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok). 
 
 Maxim took his first periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation System).  CMO assistance was rendered by Romanenko.    [Equipment used were VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  The test was during an RGS (Russian Groundsite) overflight window (10:21am) via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.]
 
 Jeff Williams had an hour set aside for continuing cargo transfer &amp; prepacking activities for STS-129/ULF3, going by an uplinked prepack list.
 
 Bob Thirsk meanwhile spent ~3 hrs on finishing up loading discarded cargo on the JAXA HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle), slated for departure on 10/30 (Friday).     [This is an exacting job since no cargo items can be allowed to come free and move around after unberthing.]
 
 Williams &amp; Thirsk worked jointly on getting the old CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) desiccant/sorbent bed 202 ready for return to the ground on ULF3, by removing it from the AR1 (Air Revitalization Rack 1) in the Kibo JPM and labeling it as a return item.    [Safing and cooldown not required since the AR rack is not powered and no umbilicals are installed.]
 
 Nicole performed the periodic status &amp; screen check on the running payload CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus), located in the ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2).
 
 Bob checked up on the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) experiment setup in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), inspecting the homogenized Sample 6 for crystals and taking photographs.    [This activity is performed daily during BCAT-5 operations to check for crystals, but it is not required after crystals have been found.  The sample is being photographed using a DCS 760 digital camera &amp; the EarthKAM software running on an SSC (Station Support Computer).  Sample pictures are taken automatically with electronic flash every hour for 21 days, and the pictures are downlinked via OCA during nominal OCA downlink sessions.]
 
 Roman set up &amp; conducted a sun-glint observation session with the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) experiment, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor) from SM window #9 and later downlinking data.     [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.  RUSALKA ops involve calibration and tests of research equipment relating to the Sun and the Earth's limb at sunset (atmosphere lighted).  Being tested are the procedure for remote determination of Methane (CH<sub>4</sub>) &amp; Carbon Dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) content in the atmosphere (in the First Phase), measurement of CH<sub>4</sub> &amp; CO<sub>2</sub> content in the atmosphere and reception of data on NI2 and NI4 content over the territories subjected to natural and technogenic effects, reception of sufficient data on seasonal dependencies of tropospheric parameters being studied (in the Second Phase).  Equipment used:  RUSALKA monoblock, Nikon D2X(s) digital photo camera; AF VR Nikkor ED 80-400f/4.5-5.6D lens with ultraviolet filter, bracket for attachment to the window, and RUSALKA-Accessories set.  Support hardware: Device TIUS DKShG/PNSK, Laptop RSK1, and Software Package loading disk.]
 
 The CDR started (later terminated) another 5-hr automatic sampling run (the 40<sup>th</sup>) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-4 (Station Support Computer 4) laptop.     [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  Today’s data will again to be compared with VOA and GSC (Grab Sample Container) measurements.  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.  Yesterday, the AQM suffered a temporary “crash” in the middle of the run but was subsequently restored with a reboot (power-cycle).  There is a possible loss of some scientific data.]
 
 De Winne also conducted THC IMV (Temperature &amp; Humidity Control / Intermodule Ventilation) flow measurements in the Node-1 (Starboard Aft) and the airflow between the Lab &amp; Node-2.
 
 The FE-1 did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Additionally, Suraev completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 The FE-3 conducted his ninth data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.    [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.] 
 
 FE-2 &amp; FE-5 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Jeff at ~10:00am &amp; Nicole at ~11:35am EDT.
 
 The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-5), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3). 
 
 Later, De Winne transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 At ~3:05am Bob Thirsk powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 3:10am conducted a ham radio session with students at Sherbrooke Community School, Sassafras, Victoria, Australia.
 
 At ~10:35am, Romanenko &amp; Suraev downlinked a PAO TV message of greetings to the Staff of the State University of Management on the 90<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of its founding.     [The State University of Management is a major economic university in Russia and one of its leading academic and scientific centers.  Its current Rector is Alexey Mikhailovich Lyalin.  The Anniversary will be celebrated from November 23-27.]
 
 At 3:35pm, De Winne, Stott, Williams &amp; Thirsk are scheduled to participate in a PAO TV exchange with an educational event set up by CSA (Canadian Space Agency) for the Minister of Education at Mount St. Vincent University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, with ~100 students, teachers, parents and province schools participating virtually throughout Nova Scotia.
 
 Conjunction Alert:   NASA FCT (Flight Control Team) is working two conjunctions of the ISS with Object 33755 (Russian COSMOS 2421 debris), with “high” concern level.  The first TCA (Time of Closest Approach) occurs on 10/30 at 12:10 EDT, 5 minutes after HTV is scheduled to be released from SSRMS.  The second TCA occurs at 1:42pm, 12 minutes after the backup HTV release time.  The optimum timing and firing parameters of a DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver), should it be required, are currently under investigation.  Any DAM should not be in conflict with HTV release activities.  Also affected are the launches of MRM2, STS-129/ULF3 &amp; Soyuz 21S plus the departure of 19S.
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Lake Poopo, Bolivia (preliminary review of most recent ISS/CEO imagery of Lake Poopo shows that investigators would like to continue to ask for more detailed views of this target area.  Lake levels in Poopo are generally affected by El Niño episodes with water levels declining during ENSO (El Niño Southern Oscillation) events.  CEO imagery will also add to existing time series imagery of the fluctuations of lake levels in Poopo.  Overlapping imagery of the lake shore and lake was requested), Port Louis, Berekely Sound, Falkland Island (H.M.S. Beagle Site: Looking right of track for Port Louis which is located on the northeastern side of East Falkland island.  The Beagle left for the Falkland Island on March 9, 1834.  Shortly after arrival, Darwin explored East Falkland island on horseback and commented on the "rivers" of very large rocks [old lava flows] covering the island.  The Beagle left Berkeley Sound on April 6<sup>th</sup>), Palmerston Island reef, central S Pacific (this oddly shaped atoll is located in the tropical south Pacific over 2,500 miles south of the Hawaiian Islands.  The lagoon is about seven miles across.  As part of an international inventory and monitoring effort of the Earth coral reef resources, the CEO team is seeking detailed, near-nadir views of the coral reef structures of this atoll system.  ISS had a near-nadir pass with partly cloudy skies expected), and SW Glaciers of S. Patagonian Glacier Field (ISS crews have been very good about documenting the larger Patagonian glaciers.  The current crew has been so good that ground specialists are now able to make more specific requests.  For this particular target site they are interested in the smaller glaciers ranging from HPS10 south to Amalia.  Documenting the individual glacier origin to the terminus).
 
 
