
Veg-04B: The crew performed a routine plant check.  This includes the assessment of individual plant pillows, the addition of water as necessary, and photography of the Mizuna plants. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-0404A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded Astronaut logs for the ISS Experience study. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Systems:
Resupply Stowage Rack (RSR) Transfer to HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)8: Today, the crew continued with HTV8 cargo transfer operations and transferred the first of three racks that will be disposed with HTV8 at the completion of its mission. This week the crew will continue to focus on HTV8 cargo operations in preparation for HTV8 close out and departure late next week.
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) tank swap: Today, the crew removed an empty Oxygen tank from Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) in the airlock, and then installed a fully pressurized Nitrogen tank.  Ground controllers then started a transfer of nitrogen from the new tank to the external Airlock High Pressure Gas Tanks.  The Nitrogen gas remaining in the NORS tank after the airlock transfer is completed will be used to re-pressurize the nitrogen portion of the ISS atmosphere later in the week.

