ISS On-Orbit Status 10/31/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew light-duty day. “Friendly Halloween reminder from Flight Control to ISS crew:  “If any trick-or-treaters call, do not open the hatch!”
 
  FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the new aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which he installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  CDR De Winne, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 Williams continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), wearing their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  FE-5 Williams had Day 2 of his second session (FD30) with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, focusing today on urine collections for the next 24 hrs.    [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  Williams also had Day 10 of his Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following the sleep shift.]
 
  The six-member crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  FE-1 Suraev did the periodic checkup behind ASU panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
  As part of the house cleaning, Suraev &amp; FE-3 Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9).
 
  Later, Maxim also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  At ~8:55am EDT, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  For the first of today’s four VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activities, on the crew’s free time, FE-4 Thirsk set up the video camcorder and recorded a science podcast segment on BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 5).     [BCAT-5 is an experiment that explores the world of colloids, which are particles suspended in a liquid or gas. They are common in everyday substances like paint, milk and even toothpaste. Because groups of these particles will be highly visible in a weightless environment, they can be studied with unprecedented accuracy.  Analyzing daily images taken by the BCAT-5 camera, scientists look at how structures form in the colloids, knowledge that may be applied to the manufacturing of plastics.  In other samples, scientists study the “collapsed state” of gels made of colloids, which will give them information on how to increase the longevity of items like fabric softeners.  Podcast: a series of digital media files (either audio or video) that are released episodically and downloaded through web syndication or on demand.] 
 
  The FE-4 also did the regular checkup on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) experiment in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), inspecting the homogenized Sample 6 for crystals and taking photographs.    [This activity is performed daily during BCAT-5 operations to check for crystals, but it is not required after crystals have been found.  The sample is being photographed using a DCS 760 digital camera &amp; the EarthKAM software running on an SSC (Station Support Computer).  Sample pictures are taken automatically with electronic flash every hour for 21 days, and the pictures are downlinked via OCA during nominal OCA downlink sessions.]
 
  For his second VolSci activity, Bob Thirsk conducted a 25-min run with the “Avatar EXPLORE” experiment using new uplinked GUI (Graphic User Interface) files and saving the resulting command data file for subsequent downlink to CSA.     [Avatar EXPLORE is an interesting CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-developed communications &amp; robot autonomy software that allows Bob Thirsk aboard the ISS to remotely interact with &amp; control a robot rover on a Mars landscape – a simulated environment called the Mars Emulation Terrain, at CSA-Hqs in St. Hubert, Quebec.  Since file exchanges between ISS and the ground are conducted only a few times per day to simulate a low-bandwidth channel, typical for planetary operations, all interactions must be conducted offline.  For evaluating telemetry files received from the rover and building a control command file, Thirsk uses an SSC laptop with an HTML-format GUI which allows him to interact with the Avatar software in more ways than just typing.  A GUI offers graphical icons and visual indicators, as opposed to text-based interfaces, typed command labels or text navigation to fully represent the information and actions available to a user.  Avatar’s Mars simulation and what is learned by it will one day become a reality.]
 
  In a third VolSci activity, Jeff Williams had chosen an EPO (Educational Program Operations) demo of the “Eye in the Sky” theme, using Earth and Moon models as props for his demonstration &amp; discussion of the many phenomena uniquely observable from the ISS.
 
  The fourth VolSci activity was conducted by CDR De Winne who set up the G1 camcorder &amp; hardware for the ESA experiment “Foam Stability” and supported several runs, replacing camcorder battery, rewinding the tape and exchanging cell arrays between runs.    [The project aims at the study of aqueous and non-aqueous foams in micro-G environment.  The behavior of foams in micro-G and on earth are very different, because the process of drainage is absent in space.  The effective enhancement of the “foamability” of liquid solutions without this drainage effect of gravity is investigated.  Other fundamental questions addressed are: how long can those foams be stable?  What is the role of solid particles in the liquid in water foam stabilization?  Is it possible to create very "wet" foams in microgravity?]
 
  Using two ~20-min RGS (Russian Ground Site) overflight windows for VHF coverage, Maxim Suraev downlinked the video footage taken by him yesterday aboard the station.  His “News from Zero Gravity” report was filmed for the Russian television channel “TV Tsentr”, using an uplinked script for the various scenes and narrations.     [TV Tsentr is launching a new program on science and technology and one of the first episodes is to show a report from the ISS.  (“…Now you know how we live up here. The reality is that there is a lot of work in space. There are many scientific experiments and studies that we carry out for the benefit of all mankind.  An example is the Rusalka experiment, in which carbon dioxide levels in our planet's atmosphere are accurately measured.  In the Uragan experiment, we are working on a procedure and system for predicting the development of natural and man-made disasters. The Vaktsina experiment is to investigate prospective proteins for AIDS vaccines on Earth and in space.  Soon, a new mini research module will be added to the ISS Russian segment, thus broadening and increasing the Russian science program.  Don't forget, we are working up here for the good of our planet.  Our fragile Earth.  Good luck to you all….".)]
 
  CDR De Winne conducted the regular weekly maintenance on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices), SLD cables and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time &amp; date values.  On special ground request, Frank also took photographs of the SLDs.
 
  Thirsk donned the Glenn TVIS harness with installed transducer instrumentation, and Stott then took front &amp; rear photography for ground inspection.  Afterwards, they switched, and Bob likewise took imagery of Nicole’s treadmill harness, as one of the SDTOs (Station Development Test Objectives).
 
  The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-4), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1). 
 
  Later, De Winne transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
  Jeff Williams filled out the regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC.     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  CDR &amp; FE-2 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Frank at ~7:25am, Nicole at ~1:38pm EDT.
 
  A new task added to the voluntary US “job jar” list for the weekend is for the crew to perform an audit of US owned electric razors, to determine their condition and need for future resupply.
 
 UPA Update:   Yesterday’s attempt to perform a drydown (emptying-out) of the DA (Distillation Assembly) was unsuccessful, and the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) remains nonfunctional.  Until UPA is regained, the crew will use the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) with urine routed to an empty Russian EDV-U container which was just installed.  The operation via this setup will be available through at least Monday (11/2), at which time the WHC will be recovered or the EDV-U will be replaced with an empty unit.    [Background:  After reviewing the data the UPA team believes the DA is not able to pump fluid from the recycle line between the DA and the FCPA (Fluids Control Pump Assembly).  In order to attempt UPA recovery a drydown (emptying-out) of the DA is needed.]
 
 
