
Payloads:
EXPRESS Expedite the Processing of Experiments for Space Station (EXPRESS) Racks: Dragon Express Rack 3-Locker 8 and Express Rack 4-Locker 5 were uninstalled and temp stowed in preparation for POLAR and MERLIN units arriving on SpX-29. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
Plant Habitat-06: Plant Habitat facility CO2 and Ethylene Scrubbers were replaced in preparation for upcoming Plant Habitat-06 operations. The Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) experiment investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analysis indicates that plants exhibit an adaptive defense response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Project EAGLE: Project Eagle and Neuronix hardware was consolidated to create stowage space before SpX-29 arrival. Culturing human cardiomyocytes, or heart cells, holds potential for disease modelling and drug discovery. In microgravity, cardiac cells can grow into three dimensional cultures that have better structural maturation compared with two dimensional cultures grown on Earth. ISS: Engineering Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Microtissues with Metabolic Regulators in Space to Promote Cardiomyocyte Maturation (Project EAGLE) grows three dimensional cultures of cardiomyocytes that could provide a better model of heart disease and improve assessment of therapeutic measures.
Systems:
USOS ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Groups (RFG) EVA, scheduled for Wednesday, November 1st. They completed EMU Suit Intravehicular (IV) Review and Training, EVA Equipment Lockout Preparation, a Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Checkout, and the In Flight Maintenance (IFM) RFG EVA Pregather. 
Visiting Vehicle Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo operations in preparation for the NG-19 unberth. Items were gathered and stowed on the NG-19 vehicle for disposal. The crew also continued cargo prepack operations in preparation for the arrival of the SpX-29 cargo vehicle. SpX-29 is planned to arrive in early November and remain at the space station for 30 days before returning safely to Earth.
Water Storage System (WSS) Water Resupply Tank (RST) Changeout: The crew changed out the full water resupply tanks 1 and 2 in WSS. The WSS resupply tanks are commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) tanks. The outer shell of the tank is a fiberglass composite that is sealed with an epoxy resin (not wetted). The interior of the shell is lined with polyethylene and the internal bladder is the polyether urethane material. Unlike most of the bladder tanks commonly used in space operations, the water is stored between the bladder and the shell (as opposed to inside the bladder). During transfer operations, the bladder is filled with compressed air which forces the water out of the tank.
