
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS):  Today, the crew transferred images to the Station Support Computer (SSC), replaced the SB-800 Flash batteries, verified the camera alignment and focus are still intact, and re-set the intervalometer.  BCAT-CS continues to produce interesting data resulting in an extension past the original 2-4 week run duration.  BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles. Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration.
Echo Setup and Stow:  The crew retrieved the Echo hardware and deployed it in the Columbus module so the ground could perform maintenance activities. The purpose of the Echo investigation is to evaluate a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes controlled by flight controllers on the ground. Additionally, this investigation serves to perform the commissioning of the Echo instrument, which is planned to be used for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Vascular Echo experiment in the future.
GRIP Seated Science Session:  The crew completed the GRIP seated session, which is second of three GRIP activities for the week.  European Space Agency (ESA)’s GRIP investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments. Data from the GRIP experiment may also support design and control of haptic interfaces used in challenging environments such as space, as well as provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.
Vegetable Production System (Veggie):  Today, the crew increased the fan speed to the high setting for Veggie. This was performed to help lower the higher than expected moisture levels in the plant pillow wicks. Veggie is a deployable plant growth unit capable of producing salad-type crops to provide the crew with a palatable, nutritious, and safe source of fresh food and a tool to support relaxation and recreation.  The VEG-03G experiment is currently running in the Veggie facility. 
Life Science Glovebox (LSG) Outfitting:  Today, the crew successfully integrated the LSG Core Facility (CF), which arrived on HTV7, with the Avionics Package (AP), which arrived on SpX-15.  Afterwards, the crew installed the hardware into the Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR). Tomorrow, the crew will complete the on-orbit configuration of LSG with commissioning planned for November 12th. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its large enclosed volume of around 450 Liters, almost twice the size of the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Lab Waste Water Bus Reconfiguration:  As a follow up to yesterday’s attempt to reconfigure the water bus for the newly installed Life Support Rack (LSR), ground teams reviewed photos of the o-rings and the poppet on the male side of the Quick Disconnect (QD) and determined it was nominal. Today, the crew successfully completed the Lab Waste Water Bus reconfiguration.

