
Microbial Tracking-2:  The crew collected body and saliva samples in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation today. The Microbial Tracking series-2 continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the International Space Station (ISS). It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms aboard the ISS. The crew samples from pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight times in addition to environmental samples from ISS surface and air locations will be collected to analyze any associations between the microbial content of the samples, as well as potential health effects.
ISS Non-invasive Sample Investigation and results Transmission to ground with the Utmost easiness (In Situ):  The crew collected a saliva sample and processed it in the bioanalyzer for the In Situ investigation.  Crewmembers are continuously monitored for health changes, and as part of these measurements, they have to take saliva samples that are stored and returned to Earth later. The IN SITU bioanalysis is a portable device that can check crewmembers’ saliva on board, enabling direct real-time analysis. The device’s first uses are to monitor stress levels and appetites among crewmembers. Humans living in space experience dramatic changes to their health, from weakened bone and muscle to reduced appetites and increased stress levels. The device uses disposable cartridges that check for the presence of the stress hormone cortisol.  A miniature analytical device that can detect certain biomarkers using non-invasively collected samples would benefit health care workers on Earth, from emergency medical technicians on call, to small rural clinics in developing countries.
Astronaut Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): Today the subject conducted day 8 of the 11 day Energy experiment run by logging their food and drink consumptions throughout the day. The Energy investigation is conducted over an 11 day period (day 0 through day 10) and measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Nine astronauts will be examined during exercise and rest cycles three months before launch, three months after arriving at space station and adapting to the space environment, and after return to Earth. Physicians will measure metabolic rates, urine content, and bone density to determine energy needs. 
Lighting Effects:  A 52S crewmember began a two week long Sleep Shift session by tracking his daily sleep patterns and wakefulness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Fluids Science Laboratory (FSL): The crew configured the FSL by releasing the Facility Core Element (FCE) to allow it to free float within the FSL rack. This configuration is required to support upcoming microgravity sensitive experiments. The Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) is a multiuser facility designed by the European Space Agency (ESA) for conducting fluid physics research in microgravity. It can be operated as a fully automatic or semiautomatic facility and can be controlled onboard by the International Space Station (ISS) crew or from the ground in telescience mode. 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Operations:  To prepare for upcoming ELF experiments, the crew exchanged the ELF sample holder and cleaned the cartridge. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by container less processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Story Time from Space: A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space investigation by reading “Max Goes to the Space Station” on camera. The video recordings will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time from Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEM A/L) Depressurization:  The JEM A/L has been depressurized in order to complete the transfer of the Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) spare, which was installed in the JEM A/L yesterday.  The MBSU will be transferred to External Stowage Platform (ESP) 2 on November 4th. 
Mobile Transporter (MT) translation:  Tonight, ground teams will translate the MT from worksite 3 in preparation for MBSU operations later this week. 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Consolidation for SpX-13:  Today, the crew performed stowage consolidation in order to make space for cargo arriving on Spx-13. 
Node 1 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Jumper Installation:  The crew installed a jumper to the Node 1 Aft Port IMV Valve in order to correct reversed pin-outs due to Node 1 Galley modifications. Checkout of the IMV Valve was successful. 
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew performed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs) and Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs).

