
Circadian Rhythms:  Gerst donned instrumentation to begin the 36 hour Circadian Rhythm experiment which investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Space headaches:  Gerst and Wiseman will complete weekly questionnaires. The objectives of this study are to obtain in-flight data allowing evaluation of the prevalence and characteristics of headache in microgravity.
Seedling Growth-2:  In preparation for the Seedling Growth-2 experiment, Wilmore manually opened the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Gas Valves within 24 hours prior to the start of the EMCS experiment. Seedling Growth-2 is the second part of the Seedling Growth Experiment series and uses the plant Arabidopsis thaliana to determine the effects of gravity on cellular signaling mechanisms of phototropism and to investigate cell growth and proliferation responses to light stimulation in microgravity conditions.
Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device (SLAMMD): Gerst, Wiseman and Wilmore set up and configured SLAMMD hardware and took body mass measurements.
Biological Rhythms 48 hours: Wiseman donned the Actiwatch to begin the 48 hour measurement. The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew wears an Actiwatch for 96 hours and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48 hours.  The crew conducts two In-flight data collects.
Zebra fish Muscle:  Wilmore configured equipment to capture specimens from the Aquatic Habitat.  Three fish will be fixed with RNAlater and three with Paraformaldehyde. The specimens will be inserted in a sample Box Module within a Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI) rack.  The Zebra fish muscle experiment investigates if the atrophy of muscles in microgravity also occurs in zebra fish and why it occurs.
Deck Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: Gerst cleaned his CQ’s intake and exhaust ducts, fans and air flow sensors in preparation for his return to Earth on November 9th on 39 Soyuz (S).
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub Conductivity Test: Wiseman completed water conductivity tests on two of the EMU water samples taken yesterday during loop scrub activities. The samples will be returned to the ground for analysis on 39S. 

