ISS On-Orbit Status 10/30/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew rest day. 
 
 Yest kasaniye!    At 12:36pm EDT, Progress M-08M/40P docked successfully to the DC1 (Docking Compartment) nadir port under precise manual control from the SM (Service Module) by Alex Kaleri who, on Moscow instruction, assumed control with the TORU system shortly before final approach (reason for this TsUP decision remains currently under investigation).  Kurs antenna retraction was nominal.  Kasaniya (contact) was followed by a final DPO post-contact thrusting burn, docking probe retraction and Sborka (hook closure) after motion damp-out while the ISS was in free drift for 20 min (12:36pm-12:56pm).  At “hooks closed” signal, the SM returned to active attitude control, maneuvering the ISS to LVLH TEA (local vertical/local horizontal Torque Equilibrium Attitude) at ~12:59pm.  Control authority returned to US Momentum Management at ~1:50pm.  Clamps installation, leak checking and hatch opening are scheduled tomorrow (5:10am-5:30am).  Progress 40P is delivering a total cargo mass of 2418 kg, consisting of 870 kg propellants, 50 kg oxygen, 226 kg water &amp; 1272 kg dry cargo.
 
  For monitoring 40P rendezvous &amp; docking from the ground, CDR Wheelock &amp; FE-5 Yurchikhin had set up the Ku-band video “scheme” for covering the Progress docking, activating the FGB-based A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop for the TV conversion to NTSC &amp; Ku-band of the RS (Russian Segment) video signal from the SONY HDV camera via the MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB &amp; SM, in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.  
 
 <h3 style="margin:0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-indent:0in;mso-list:none">Approach &amp; docking was monitored by Yurchikhin as always on the SSC1 laptop using the NVIEWER (NASA Viewer) software application.</h3> 
  After the docking, Doug Wheelock tore down and removed the MPEG-2 “scheme” streaming video downlink setup, then deactivated the conversion A31p laptop in the FGB.
 
  At wake-up, FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  In the morning, FE-6 Walker shut down the amateur/ham radio equipment (~3:30am) to prevent RF interference with the Progress KURS radio control system, while FE-3 Kelly closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo &amp; Cupola science windows.    [Ham gear was turned on again by Shannon before sleeptime.]
 
  Also before docking, Yurchikhin activated and verified proper operation of the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during the Progress spacecraft docking.  Afterwards, Fyodor downlinked the measurement data to the ground and shut off DAKON.      [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
  FE-3 Kelly started his 2<sup>nd</sup> 24-hr urine collections of the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) urine sampling protocol, taking samples several times for MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) sample storage.      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV (International Procedures Viewer) capabilities, the generic blood &amp; urine procedures for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
  Scott also supported remote payload operations on the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment) payload by turning on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starting the data flow, while POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center/Huntsville) routed the HRDL (High-Data Rate Line) system.  Scott deactivated the MPC after about 3h20m.     [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  ICF is one of three CFE experiments, the others being Vane Gap (VG) and Contact Line (CL).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]
 
  CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker &amp; FE-3 Kelly did their share of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, performed yesterday for the RS by the three Russian Flight Engineers.     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  Fyodor performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Wheels &amp; Scott filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  At ~8:10am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  At ~4:05pm, Shannon held her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 
