
Body Measures:  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins, with operator assistance from FE-6 Nyberg, set up cameras and cabin video, performed body marker instrumentation, and collected calibration and body pose photos and circumference measurements.  It is anticipated that body measurements will change due to microgravity and fluid shifts. The goal of this study is to gather preliminary data to better understand the magnitude and variability of these changes. This data is important to be able to determine the changes that may occur during long-duration space flight and to be able to apply the changes to suit fit, suit sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time for altering or adjusting their suits, workstation, etc. to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Biological Rhythms 48 Hour Experiment:  Today FE-5 Parmitano completed his session of JAXA’s Biological Rhythms 48 hour experiment, removing the Digital Walk Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) and Actiwatch and saving the accumulated Holter data.  This study examines the circadian variation of astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight. The research is expected to provide insights into changes in those functions before, during and after long-duration space flight and may be used to improve the health care technology used for future ISS crewmembers.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment:  FE-6 Nyberg will conduct the 7th of the new series of 12 InSPACE-3 runs. This new series uses the same test parameter settings as previous runs but with an increase in the duration from 2 hours to 6 hours. This will allow investigation of a continued chain-like aggregation phenomena observed towards the end of some of the previous shorter duration runs.  InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state with the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Soyuz (35S) Descent On-Board Training (OBT): CDR Yurchikhin, FE-5 Parmitano, and FE-6 Nyberg completed took part in a Soyuz OBT in preparation for their undocking and landing scheduled for November 10 at 5:26 pm CST. The training covered a review of preliminary undocking and descent data as well as a walkthrough of the descent timeline (from Soyuz activation through post-landing activities) using the Neptune-ME control panel.
Soyuz (37S) Launch and Docking: Soyuz Commander Tyurin, Mastracchio, and Wakata are scheduled to launch onboard 37S from the Baikonur, Kazakhstan Cosmodrome at 10:14pm CST this evening. 37S is expected to perform a four-orbit rendezvous then dock to the Mini-Research Module (MRM)-1 port at 4:31am CST November 7th, increasing the ISS to a 9 crew complement.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Operational Status: Yesterday, the crew performed a 6-month and a yearly inspection of T2.  During the inspection, the crew reported some damage on the right side of the lateral belt, and downlinked imagery of the region of interest.   While the ground team assessed imagery and data from the inspection, the crew was directed not to use T2.   After verifying that no Foreign Object Debris (FOD) was discovered during the inspection yesterday, ground teams cleared T2 for use and it was used without issue this morning.  A subsequent inspection will be scheduled to further document the minor damage to the lateral belt, however specialists have cleared the belt for exercise.  T2 remains ‘GO’ for exercise.

