
37 Soyuz Launch, Docking and Hatch Opening: Soyuz Commander Tyurin, Mastracchio, and Wakata launched onboard Soyuz 37S last night at 10:14pm CST. Following a successful four-orbit rendezvous, they docked to the Mini-Research Module (MRM)-1 port at 4:27am CST this morning.  Once leak checks between the MRM1 and 37S were performed, the hatches were opened at 6:44 am increasing the ISS to a 9 crew complement.   The arriving crew members took part in a welcome ceremony that included the Olympic Torch.  Later in the day, the 37S crewmembers dried out their Sokol suits and the entire crew participated in an initial safety briefing.
Skin-B Investigation:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano connected the Skin B instruments to a laptop in the Columbus module and performed Corneometer, Tewameter and Visioscan measurements on his forearm.  The ESA Skin-B investigation may improve the understanding of skin aging, which is accelerated in space. This investigation may also provide insights into the aging process in organs covered with epithelial and connective tissue which adapt and age over time under the physical stresses imposed by the environment.  Skin-B data may be used to in predicting impacts on astronauts of even more challenging environmental conditions during future missions to the Moon and Mars.
Salivary Markers Investigation:  FE-3 Hopkins performed his Flight Day 90 session of Salivary Markers, the second of his three sessions planned for his time on-orbit.  This included ambient blood, saliva, and urine collections and completion of a health assessment questionnaire. The Salivary Markers investigation includes the bodily fluid collections and health assessment on subjects pre-, in- and post-flight to determine if spaceflight induced immune system dysregulation increases infection susceptibility or poses a significant health risk to crewmembers onboard the ISS. The investigation utilizes measures designed to determine the effects of long-term exposure to microgravity on a host of salivary antimicrobial proteins (AMPs), latent viral reactivation, antibacterial properties of saliva, and blood markers associated with innate host immune defense.
35Soyuz Return Cargo Preparations: FE-3 Hopkins retrieved the Radiation Area Monitors (RAMs) deployed throughout the ISS for return on 35S.  Photos were taken and downlinked for ground teams to reference during retrieval of the RAMs from the Soyuz at the landing site.

