
X2R21 Transition Activities: As part of the X2R21 software updates occurring this week, ground teams loaded and transitioned the S3 and P3 Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs) to S3P3 R7 and installed the CCS R21 Timeliner bundle to the primary Command and Control (C&C) MDM. Today’s activities concluded the X2R21 software transition, and the ISS is now using the newest software. The X2R21 software updates will provide support for new vehicles such as the HTV-X1 and DCC-1, add safing for rack relocation activities, provide commanding and mode swap capabilities, and provide a number of other generic system improvements.
Payloads:
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): Photos of the Sample Vacuum Cleaner Nozzle were taken in order to confirm correct sample is on-board. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the Kibo Module.
Lumina: The Lumina hardware data was transferred and parameters changed with EveryWear application. Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Veggie Facility: The Veggie Facility was deactivated post XROOTS operations. The Vegetable Production System (Veggie) is a deployable plant growth unit capable of producing salad-type crops to provide the crew with a palatable, nutritious, and safe source of fresh food and a tool to support relaxation and recreation. The Veggie Facility provides lighting and nutrient delivery and utilizes the cabin environment for temperature control and as a source of carbon dioxide to promote growth.
Systems:
Training for Emergency Response On-board ISS: The crew practiced ISS Emergency Response for ISS emergency scenarios with ground teams based on information provided by the simulator displays. The crew executed procedures and decision making based on cues provided by the simulator and physically translated through the ISS to appropriate response locations to visualize the use of equipment and interfaces. This allows the crew to practice communication and coordination with MCC-H and MCC-M teams for a given emergency scenario. 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew R&R’d the Pre-Treat Tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: After the issue with Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3009 during yesterday’s EVA preparation activities, the crew will use EMU 3004 for the upcoming EVAs. Today, they completed a resize from EMU 3009 to EMU 3004, removed the EMU battery and Li-Ion Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (LREBA) battery from EMU 3009, and R&R’d the Hard Upper Torso (HUT) on EMU 3004. The R&R changed out the installed medium HUT with a large HUT. Additionally, the crew practiced donning Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) and started preparing the Equipment Lock and EMUs 3004 and 3013 for an upcoming On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV). 
Cygnus NG-18 Arrival Preparations: Today, the crew gathered and stowed Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and vestibule closeout equipment in preparation for NG-18 arrival on Tuesday, November 8th. The CBCS will be installed at Node 1 Nadir and checked out by the crew tomorrow. Additionally, the two crewmembers assigned to NG-18 capture operations practiced offset grapples on the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF). With the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) purposefully misaligned within tolerances and positioned at the PMM FRGF High Hover position, the two crewmembers took turns using the Cupola Robotic Workstation (RWS) to perform as many grapple approaches as desired. The two also used the time to determine how they would manage the volumetric constraints of the Cupola and understand the lighting conditions during SSRMS maneuvering.

