
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #33:  Kelly and Lindgren egressed the Airlock at 5:22am CST in order to perform P6 Return To Original Configuration (RTOC) EVA #33.  The Phased Elapsed Time (PET) for today’s EVA was 7 hours and 48 minutes.  The objectives for the EVA that were completed are as follows:
 

Open Photo Voltaic Radiator (PVR) 2B Flight Quick Disconnect Coupling (FQDC)
P3/P4 Ammonia Jumper Install
Reconfigure Ammonia Tank Assembly (ATA) Vent Panel for Ammonia Fill
Early External Thermal Control System (EETCS)/Photovoltaic Thermal Control System (PVTCS) Fill
Reconfigure P5/P6 Jumpers for Ammonia Fill
Trailing Thermal Control Radiator (TTCR) Retract
P1/P5 Ammonia Fill Line Vent
P3/P4 Jumper Stow
Starboard Crew Equipment Translation Aid (CETA) Cart Reconfig
Alpha Joint Interface Structure (AJIS) Strut Bolt Torque and MLI Reconfiguration

 
The TTCR cinch and shroud task was deferred because the EVA was running long.  Instead, the TTCR was re-deployed so that it would be in a stable long term configuration.  In addition, only one of the two AJIS strut bolt torques was completed.  Following the EVA, ISS is in a stable configuration.
 
Reaction Self Test:  Kelly will complete a Reaction Self Test session prior to his sleep period tonight.  This session and the sessions completed yesterday were scheduled to provide data in close time proximity to today’s extravehicular activity (EVA).  Reaction Self Test helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, EVA, and residual sedation from sleep medications).
 
Soret Facet:  A run was completed last night for JAXA’s Soret Facet investigation.  The Soret effect in fluids is a thermodynamic phenomenon in which different particles respond in different ways to varying temperatures. The effect has been difficult to examine in detail on Earth because of convection effects in gravity conditions.  This is the first investigation to verify Soret conditions in steady and changing conditions that supports a comparison of the Soret effects in microgravity to effects observed on the ground.
 

