
Veg-03 Operations: The crew checked and photo documented the status of the plants in the Veggie facility, and evaluated the plant pillows to determine if additional watering is required.  The overall goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows using ‘Outredgeous’ Red Romaine lettuce.  Future long-duration missions into the solar system, will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which means growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments, but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and ISS made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the new Veggie hardware, which crew members will soon use to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables in space. Tests determine which types of microorganisms are present in space-grown cabbage, providing baseline data for future crop-growing efforts.  Behavioral health surveys assess the impact of growing plants on crew morale and mood.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Maintenance: The OGS Inlet Deionizing (DI) Bed was removed and replaced successfully this morning.  The crew also began a series of activities to purge the Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) recirculation loop. This is designed to help flush Total Organic Carbons (TOC) and other potential contaminants from the recirculation loop prior to installing the new Hydrogen Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU), which is scheduled for tomorrow. The crew had issues mating a Quick Disconnect (QD) in the chain of hoses and was not able to flush all of the water from the system. Ground teams are currently assessing options for completing the flush. Additional time will be added to tomorrow’s plan to implement troubleshooting steps ahead of the scheduled replacement of the OGS Hydrogen ORU.
Orbital ATK (OA)-5 Cargo Operations:  The crew performed one hour of Cygnus cargo transfer operations today.  As of the last report the crew had completed 18 hours of cargo transfer with an estimated 8 hours remaining.

