
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Burst Disc Removal: The crew removed the burst discs from the argon and checked gas manifolds in the CIR Gas Chromatography (GC) system.  These burst discs are considered redundant with the pressure relief valves in the system and issues with the helium burst disc have occurred in the past.  Following this activity, the valves for all three gas bottles were opened.  The GC will be used with the future Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiment (ACME) investigation entitled Burning Rate Emulator (BRE), which focuses on spacecraft fire prevention.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance:  Reaching and Grasping (GRASP): The crew performed three versions of the GRASP seated position science session.  GRASP is intended to provide insight into how the central nervous system integrates information from different sensory modalities, encoded in different reference frames, to coordinate movements of the hand with objects in the environment.  Performed on the ISS, in conjunction with a series of experiments performed on the ground, GRASP explores the interaction among all of the various sensory cues.
HTV Small Re-entry Capsule (HSRC) Crew Conference and Procedure Review: The crew participated in a crew conference and procedure review in preparation for the HTV-7 release next week.  The HTV-7 HSRC will return the JAXA Low Temp Protein Crystal Growth (LT PCG4) samples to the ground.  HSRC demonstrates re-entry and retrieval techniques to return experimental samples from ISS research back to Earth. HSRC has navigation, guidance, and control systems, including a Reaction Control System (RCS), and can conduct controlled re-entry to a target point on Earth, while keeping an environment of less than 4G for return.
Veg-03G Plant Thinning and Pillow Prime: The crew thinned the plants as needed so that only one plant per pillow remains.  Multiple seeds are germinated in each plan pillow and this activity removes the smallest plants.  The ground and crew noted some of the plants were too small to thin today and these will be thinned at a later time. The crew also performed the pillow prime, which involves the addition of 15ml of water to each plant pillow to support continued growth.  Veg-03G is currently in a 28 day growth cycle which began on October 25 for the Red Russian Kale and Dragoon Lettuce plants. The primary goal of the Veg-03 G/H/I testing is to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie hardware using leafy green vegetables as a test crops.
Systems Operations Data File (SODF) Emergency Procedure Update: Today, the crew updated the hard copy Fire Emergency Book with changes to account for which breathing mask to prepare and don per established criteria.

