
SpaceX-29 (SpX-29) Launch and Dock: The SpX-29 Dragon spacecraft is planned to launch aboard a Falcon 9 rocket from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida tonight at 19:28 CST before docking to the ISS Saturday Morning at 04:21 CST. The spacecraft is delivering new science investigations, food, supplies to the ISS.
ISS Reboost: The ISS is planned to perform a reboost this evening using the Aft Progress 85P Rendezvous and Docking (R&D) thrusters. This is one of two planned reboosts in November to set up proper phasing conditions for the upcoming Progress 86P launch on Friday, December 1st. The expected burn duration is 15minutes 05s with a target delta-V of 1.43 m/s.
Payloads:
Astrobee: Perching Arms were installed on both Astrobee free flyers. Astrobatics Skins were installed on Astrobee flyers and Astrobatics Science 5 operations were performed. Astrobee is made up of free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Cell Gravisensing-2: The water tank of Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Humidifier 2 was refilled and the Humidifier was installed into the CBEF Incubator Unit (IU) Micro-G in preparation of upcoming Cell Gravisensing-2 experiment. Recent spaceflight experiments have revealed that individual animal cells can feel the effects of gravity. However, how cells can sense gravity is largely unknown, thus understanding this mechanism emerges as one of the most important problems to be solved in space biology. Elucidation of Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation challenges this problem through the analysis of the substrate-rigidity sensing capability of cells during spaceflight.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): The Coliform Detection Bags and Microbial Capture Devices (MCD) were visually analyzed after 48 hours of incubation. An on-orbit Potable Water Dispenser (PWD), launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Systems:
In-flight Maintenance (IFM) Water Recovery System (WRS) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) Reversion: Within the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA), the Purge Pump and Separator Assembly (PPSA) was reverted to the legacy PCPA. In July, the UPA was upgraded by replacing the PCPA with PPSA. Recently, the system has been suffering high pressure issues and have been unable to process urine. Ground teams concluded PPSA to be the cause of the issue and reverted back to the PCPA in order to return UPA to a nominal configuration.
IFM PCPA Support Activities: To support the ongoing PCPA Reversion, the crew performed several smaller IFM tasks. A Quick Disconnect (QD) pair of male and female halves were cleaned of dried pretreat. A Gas Trap Plug on the Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) was removed and replaced. The Node 3 toilet and stall were temporarily removed to enable rotation of the Node 3 Deck 4 rack, which contains the UPA. After the PCPA reconfiguration was complete, the toilet and stall were reinstalled.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS EveryWear (EVW) Medication and Nutrition Tracking: The crew recorded daily nutrition and medication intake. EVW is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general.
Dragon Cargo Operations Review: The crew reviewed the mission and vehicle overview for the upcoming SpX-29 arrival. This overview detailed the general layout and where significant cargo items are stowed. After reviewing the overview, the crew met with ground teams for a conference where specialists answered any questions from the crew.
