
Meteor: The crew removed and replaced the hard drive in the Meteor laptop and completed a software anti-virus update. The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. The study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The crew exchanged the hard drive containing Run #2 data and inserted a new hard drive for Run #3. The crew then reconfigured the gas chamber from Neon to Argon gas usage. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
Onboard Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Simulation:  The full crew participated in a simulation to practice emergency responses based on information provided by simulator displays. They translated through ISS to appropriate response locations and practiced procedure execution and decision making based on cues from the simulator. Following the training, they conducted a review session with Houston and Moscow Control Centers.
Northrop Grumman-10 (NG-10) Cygnus Rendezvous On-board Training (OBT):  The crew reviewed the NG-10 mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures, and interfaces necessary for monitoring and commanding to the Cygnus vehicle.  NG-10 is scheduled to arrive at the ISS on November 18.

