
Payloads
NanoRacks Cubesat Deployer – Mission 19 (NRCSD-19) –  The crew installed the Cubesat deployers onto the MPEP (Multipurpose Experiment Platform). The crew also took imagery photos of the hardware installation.  For NRCSD-19, there are eight Deployers preassembled in two Quad Deployers, and a total of seven satellites will be deployed (SpOC, Bobcat-1, NEUTRON-1, LEMUR2 (v4.7), LEMUR2 (v4.8), DESCENT, and SAT-LLA). The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer is a stackable, modular, ground loaded launch case. Each NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer accommodates up to six launch cases and are stacked for each JEM Airlock opening.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2) – The crew deployed the eight Radi-N2 bubble detectors at JEM Panel FD3/JPM1F3 and provided photodocumentation of the detectors.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit. The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Repository – The crew performed urine and blood collections in support of the Repository study. Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Systems
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation – The crew initiated an automated Charge-Discharge-Charge (C-D-C) maintenance cycle on all Helmet Lights, PGT Batteries, and two REBAs in the BSA via the Battery Charger Assembly (BCA).
SpaceX Crew Dragon Computer Based Training (CBT) Review – The crew continued familiarization training in preparation for Crew Dragon rendezvous operations. SpaceX Crew-1 Mission is currently schedule for launch on November 14th from Kennedy Space Center and is set to dock to the ISS on November 15th.

