ISS On-Orbit Status 11/06/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 FE-1 Suraev terminated his 2<sup>nd</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 FE-3 Romanenko did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 After yesterday’s coolant refill of the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) in the Lab and JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-4 Thirsk tore down the FSS (Fluid Servicing System), drained &amp; purged the system and its jumpers and stowed the equipment.
 
 In support of the currently ongoing ICS (Inter-Satellite Communication System) checkout by JAXA/SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center) in Tsukuba, FE-2 Stott reconfigured a HRMS (High Rate Multiplexer Switch) patch cable in the Kibo module.
 
 CDR De Winne completed Day 2 of the ESA cardiological experiment CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease), closing out the 24-hr urine collection protocol, performing the first rebreathing session and completing the blood draw in two tubes which he then centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge).  For the session, he activated the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop.  Afterwards, FE-4 Thirsk, acting as operator, dismantled &amp; stowed the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System), saved all the HLTA BP (Holter Arterial Blood Pressure) data on the EPM laptop and replaced the empty PPFS calibration gas bottle with Tank 2 in the HRF GDS (Human Research Facility Gas Delivery System), to be used later for VO<sub>2</sub>max.      [After the second blood centrifugation, the two tubes were placed into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for the ISS) at -80 degC.  CARD includes three double rebreathing sessions yesterday plus two double rebreathings today with the 4L Re-breathing Bag.  Between these two rebreathings, the CDL HTA was activated to take BP measurements.  Astronauts experience lowered blood volume and pressure during space missions due to relaxation of the cardiovascular system in microgravity which may be a result from decreased fluid and sodium in the body.  CARD examines the relationship between salt intake and the cardiovascular system when exposed to the microgravity environment and explores whether blood pressure &amp; volume can be restored to the same levels that were measured during groundbased measurements by adding additional salt to the crew’s food.  Results from this may lead to new health safety measures for astronauts to protect them on long duration missions.]
 
 Later, De Winne exchanged the ESEM-4 (Exchangeable Standard Electronic Module 4) units on the EPM PDU (European Physiology Module / Power Distribution Module) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), swapping the ESEM-4 of slot 6 with the one of slot 8.
 
 Frank also disconnected the ESA MPPLL (Multipurpose Laptop) 16VDC power cable from the EPM laptop and reconnected it to the MPPLL, then removed the CDL (Cardiolab) Holter Arterial BP (Blood Pressure) PCMCIA memory card from the EPM laptop and stowed it.
 
 Also in the COL, FE-2 Stott later worked on the HRF1 (Human Research Facility 1) rack, performing troubleshooting of the USND (Ultrasound) equipment which had produced erroneous data during Jeff Williams’ second (FD30) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Resting Echo session on 11/2.     [Nicole’s several hours of activities included setting up &amp; activating the USND hardware (scan heads, cables, keyboard, multi-use bracket for zero-G attachment), reloading (ghosting) the software and conducting diagnostic steps, including USND channel board testing and checkouts of USND ports and scan heads.]
 
 In preparation for Progress M-MRM2 docking on 11/12 (Thursday, ~10:43am EST), FE-1 Suraev &amp; FE-3 Romanenko worked through the standard three-hour training course with the TORU teleoperator system, which provides a manual backup mode to the Progress’ KURS automated rendezvous radio system.  Afterwards, Maxim &amp; Roman tagged up with a TORU instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band audio to report on results.  Maxim will monitor the automatic approach &amp; docking plus operate TORU if necessary, while Roman will support approach &amp; docking.      [The drill included procedure review, rendezvous, docking data and rendezvous math modeling data review, fly-around, final approach, docking and off-nominal situations (e.g., video or comm loss).  Three modes were simulated on the RSK1 laptop with varying range and sunlight conditions.  The TORU teleoperator control system lets a SM (Service Module)-based crewmember perform the approach and docking of automated Progress vehicles in case of KURS failure.  Receiving a video image of the approaching ISS, as seen from a Progress-mounted docking television camera (“Klest”), on a color monitor (“Simvol-Ts”, i.e. “symbol center”) which also displays an overlay of rendezvous data from the onboard digital computer, the crewmember would steer the Progress to mechanical contact by means of two hand controllers, one for rotation (RUO), the other for translation (RUD), on adjustable armrests.  The controller-generated commands are transmitted from the SM's TORU control panel to the Progress via VHF radio.  In addition to the Simvol-Ts color monitor, range, range rate (approach velocity) and relative angular position data are displayed on the “Klest-M” video monitor (VKU) which starts picking up signals from Progress when it is still approximately 8 km away.  TORU is monitored in real time from TsUP over Russian ground sites (RGS) and via Ku-band from Houston, but its control cannot be taken over from the ground.  On 11/12, Progress KURS will be activated at ~9:07am EST on Daily Orbit 1 (DO1), SM KURS two minutes later.  Progress floodlight will be switched on at a range of ~8 km.  Flyaround to the SM zenith port (~400 m range, in sunlight) starts at 10:17am, followed by station keeping at 180m at ~10:26:30am.  Start of final approach: ~10:34am (DO2) in sunlight, contact, at sunset: ~10:43:30am.]
 
 Later, Suraev terminated battery charging for the KPT-2 Kelvin-Video payload and subsequently also for the TTM-2 battery.  FE-1 then had 2.5 hrs for working with the Russian KPT-12 BAR experiment, taking background environment parameters in the SM behind various panels, using the AU-1 Ultrasound Analyzer, UT2-03 Leak Indicator and Iva-6A Thermal Hygrometer to identify potential condensation areas.  Afterwards, data were downloaded to the RSE1 laptop, log tables filled out for OCA downlink and the equipment restowed.      [The Iva-6A, TTM-2 and Kelvin-Video probes took air &amp; dew point temperatures behind panels 433, 434, 429, 202 &amp; 404.  The AU-1 was used in areas close to the pressure shell before panels.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 Maxim also conducted the periodic photography of the running BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM, using the NIKON D2X with f17-55mm lens to shoot 2-3 pictures of the growing plants in the LADA greenhouse for subsequent downlink.    [Rasteniya-2, set up on 10/29 with a new batch of seeds, researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.] 
 
 Romanenko started another round on the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, cleaning Group A fans and grilles in the SM.
 
 In the US A/L (Airlock), Nicole &amp; Jeff continued EVA preparations for ULF3, including –
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>Installing a REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery, #1009) in EMU #3006 for powered checkout of EMU equipment,</li><li>Terminating recharge of EMU batteries in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly),</li><li>Restowing the A/L with items that had been moved out temporarily for the PMA-3/CL (Crewlock) depressurization,</li><li>Beginning ULF3 spacewalk preparations of the A/L proper, and</li><li>Using the G1 camcorder to shoot a video tour of the A/L interior for instructional use by the upcoming ULF3/STS-129 crew.</li></ul> 
 In the Kibo JPM, FE-5 Williams continued his support of the FPEF MS (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility / Marangoni Surface) equipment for a ground-controlled run of the MI (Marangoni Inside) convection experiment.     [Jeff’s activities included changing a lamp in the FPEF on JAXA request, installing MI, installing the experiment cover body, connecting the FPEF payload bus cable, connecting the FPEF silicone hose, closing out the MS MWA I/F A &amp; B (Maintenance Work Area Interface A &amp; B), later removing the experiment cover plate, installing connector P12 at the FPEF and closing the cover plate.   Background:  In microgravity, fluids react differently to stresses when compared to the same stresses on Earth.  Understanding the responses to the stressors allows for improved fluid flow models to be designed.  Mass transfer on or in a liquid due to surface tension differences is called the Marangoni Effect (which, for example, stabilizes a soap film).  The Marangoni convection experiment in the FPEF examines fluid tension flow in micro-G:  first, a liquid bridge of silicone oil is formed into a pair of disks.  Then, using temperature differences imposed on the disks, convection is induced causing the silicone oil to move and transition through different types of flows because of its fluid instability: successively from laminar to oscillatory, chaos, and turbulence flows as the driving force increases.  The flow and temperature fields are observed in each stage and the transition conditions and processes are investigated.]
 
 Continuing the periodic checking up on THC IMV (Temperature &amp; Humidity Control / Intermodule Ventilation) performance, the FE-5 also took airflow measurements with the electronic Velocicalc instrument of the airflow between the US Lab and Node-2, after removing a closeout panel in the Lab and cleaning the inlet grille with the vacuum cleaner.
 
 CDR De Winne completed another leak check in Node-1 on the hatch of the depressurized PMA-3 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3).    [The ISA (Internal Sampling Adapter with 5-ft VAJ (Vacuum Access Jumper) is being left in place for pressure readings to continue leak check on future days.]
 
 In the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment, Nicole Stott replaced the EDV-U currently being used for urine storing in lieu of the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) with a fresh one.
 
 Roman performed another 30-min session with the ocean observations program DZZ-13 “Seiner” to obtain data on color field patterns and current cloud cover conditions over the south-east Pacific area.    [The experiment uses visual observation, videography (HDV camcorder, PAL mode) and selective photography (NIKON D2X with AF-S Zoom-Nikkor 80-200 mm lens) of color-contrast images and large discontinuities in cloud fields along the flight path, controlled from the RSK-1 laptop.  Max’s photography had to be accompanied by a continuous non-stop video recording of underlying terrain using the HDV camera securely fixed above SM Window #8 precisely in nadir using the LIV adapter.]
 
 The FE-3 did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Romanenko also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 FE-4 Thirsk conducted the regular daily support of the MDS (Mice Drawer System) facility by checking its potable water supply and performing a visual inspection of cages 1, 2 &amp; 5 with their live occupants.
 
 Bob Thirsk &amp; Jeff Williams filled out the regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 Bob conducted the regular weekly maintenance on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices), SLD cables and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time &amp; date values.  On special ground request, Thirsk also took photographs of the SLDs.
 
 For part of their physical exercise today, Nicole, Bob, Jeff and Frank worked out on the new T2/COLBERT treadmill as long-duration tests without handrail, at pre-specified times for IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) structural dynamics data taking.  Jeff then downloaded the crew’s HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) files from the T2 session to the MEC.
 
 The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), T2 treadmill (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-3).
 
 Later, Frank transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 At ~2:55am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 At ~3:30am, Roman linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
 At ~3:42am, Nicole Stott powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 3:47am conducted a ham radio session with students at Tokaisonritsu Muramatsu Elementary School, Tokai Village, Japan.
 
 At ~6:50am, Frank held an audio conference with ground specialists to discuss IMS Stowage issues, via S-band.
 
 At ~9:00am, all crewmembers convened for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio &amp; phone patch.
 
 At ~2:55pm, Nicole, Bob, Jeff &amp; Frank are scheduled for the periodic 30-min payload science conference via S-Band/audio, with the NASA Crew Science Officer, IPM (Increment Payload Manager), LIS (Lead Increment Scientist) and POM (Payload Operations Manager) to discuss ISS payloads. 
 
 At ~3:30pm, the ISS crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]
 
 At ~4:15pm, CDR De Winne &amp; FE-4 Thirsk are scheduled for an ESA PAO TV event with Belgian media (four broadcasters) in Brussels, Belgium, and TF1 TV channel in Paris, France.  Both clients will tape for replay in their later news programs.
 
 Conjunction Alert:   NASA FCT (Flight Control Team) is working three consecutive conjunctions of the ISS with Object 80908.  The first TCA (Time of Closest Approach) occurs early tomorrow morning at 1:51am EST, the second at 3:23am, the third at 4:54am.  The second TCA poses the most threat, with a spacing of ~3 km based on uncertain tracking.  The next best possible tracking pass will be at 3:45pm this afternoon.  Since the crew’s sleeptime starts at ~4:30pm, the possibility of “camping out” in the two Soyuz spacecraft will be discussed with the crew later today during the regular DPC (Daily Planning Conference, ~2:05pm).
 
 
