
TripleLux-B (BIOLAB):  Gerst unstowed tools and items needed for the installation of the distribution and cleaning (D&C) cassette of the Biolab Microscope.  This activity was performed in preparation of the upcoming TripleLux-B experiment.  The objective of Triplelux-B is to further understand the cellular mechanisms underlying the increase in radiation responses, and the impairment of the immune system functions under spaceflight conditions.
Nanoracks Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #3:  Wilmore and Gerst have removed NRCSD #3 from the Japanese Experiment module airlock (JEMAL).  The crew cleaned up the JEM Airlock inner hatch window protection items (MLI and hatch window cover assembly) and removed NRCSD#3 hardware from the Multipurpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) and performed troubleshooting by measuring and releasing the jack screw torque on the CubeSat Quad Deployers. Finally, the MPEP was removed from Small Fine Arm (SFA) Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM). The slide table was subsequently retracted and the JEMAL inner hatch was closed.
Biological rhythms 48 hour:  Wiseman terminated his first of two 24-hour measurements, exchanged the multi-media card and battery, and then restarted the second 24-hour measurement. The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew will wear an Actiwatch for 96-hour and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48-hour.
Cardio OX:  Wiseman completed sample collections in support of return minus 15 day experiment requirements. The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Salivary Markers:  Gerst began the 7 day saliva collection to support the Salivary Markers investigation. The Salivary Markers investigation involves the collection of blood, saliva, urine and a health assessment on six subjects pre-, in- and post-flight to determine if spaceflight induced immune system dysregulation increases infection susceptibility or poses a significant health risk to crewmembers onboard the ISS.
Biochem Profile:  Gerst and Wiseman completed sample collections to support the return minus 14 day (R-14) Biochem Profile investigation.  The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Ocular Health:  With Wilmore acting as the Crew Medical Officer operator, the fundoscope was used to conduct a health maintenance system eye exam on Wiseman in support of Ocular health and medical ops investigations.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
39S Crew Departure Preparations:  Wiseman and Gerst continued to pack up their personal items in preparation for their return to earth scheduled for November 9th CST.  The packed items will be returning to the ground via Soyuz 39S, SpaceX-4, and SpaceX-5.  

