
Crew Reduced Duty Day:  Today was a reduced duty day for the US crew in advance of tomorrow’s EVA.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The US crew members conducted final preparations to the Equipment Lock, Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs), and ancillary hardware.  They also reviewed related procedures and briefing packages then conducted a conference with the ground to answer any questions.  US EVA #33 (P6 Return To Original Configuration) is scheduled to occur tomorrow with hatch opening taking place at approximately 6:15am CST.
 
Reaction Self Test:  Kelly completed two sessions today for the Reaction Self Test investigation, one after he woke up in the morning and one prior to his sleep period.  These sessions, and an additional late session on Friday, were scheduled to provide data in close proximity to the extravehicular activity (EVA) planned for this Friday.  Reaction Self Test helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, EVA, and residual sedation from sleep medications).
 
Space Headaches:  Yui and Lindgren completed their weekly Space Headaches questionnaires today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status:  Yesterday, the crew transferred a tank (EDV) of Russian pretreated urine to the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).  The quantity transferred was unexpected.  Today, the crew reported that when they tried to perform another EDV transfer, the transfer hose had air bubbles in it and liquid was not flowing.  The problem appears to be a leak in the bladder of the EDV that was transferred yesterday which allowed air to enter the hose, the WSTA and the recycle tank.  To remove as much of the air as possible from the UPA, the crew drained the WSTA and the recycle tank that was removed yesterday as well as the recycle tank that had been installed today.  They also replaced the EDV transfer hose.
 
Food Warmer Inspection:  Yui performed an annual inspection of the US Food Warmer located within the Service Module. While performing this activity, he photo documented wear indications and succesfully performed a powered functional test.
 

