
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer – 02 (AMS): The crew performed an AMS procedure review in support of the upcoming EVA to replace the Tracker Thermal Control System (TTCS) with an Upgraded Tracker Thermal Control System (UTTPS).  Over time, the TTCS cooling pumps have slowly degraded and have experienced a loss of coolant (liquid CO2).  The UTTPS will allow the AMS team to continue to collect data to on anti-helium nuclei and dark matter.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
BEST (Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology): The crew transferred BEST cell samples from the Media kit to the new growth Media Tubes using pipettes and then stowed the tubes.  The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS; and, how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS. 
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L): Crew continued to perform steps for the installation of CBEF-L Control Equipment into Saibo Rack. Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
EXPRESS Rack ER6 (EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station Racks): Crew was not able to complete the software installation due to problems with the ER6 Zbook not being able to recognize the thumb drive.  The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space. 
ISS HAM:  The crew completed a contact pass with I.C. Montignoso – Scuola secondaria I grado “G.B.Giorgini”, Montignoso and I.C.  “G.B. Perasso”, Milano, Italy.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Standard Measures: The crew collected blood samples for the Standard Measures experiment.  The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions. 
Vascular Echo: The crew participated in a Vascular Echo session that included arterial blood pressure measurements, and ultrasound scans of the neck, thigh, portal vein and heart.  Cardiac and Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.    
Veg-04B: The crew performed a routine plant check, and watered the plants as needed.  The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-0404A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Systems:
Cygnus NG-12 Operations:  Today, the ISS crew continued to work on Cygnus cargo transfer to the ISS including unpacking and transferring payloads. The Cygnus spacecraft is currently operating off ISS power configured with prime and backup power. The Cygnus/NG-12 vehicle is part of the new Commercial Resupply Services-2 (CRS-2) program that includes multiple upgrades that expands the vehicle capabilities.
Mobile Servicing System:  Yesterday, the Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and released the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from the Cygnus vehicle.  Once clear, they maneuvered the SSRMS towards the International Docking Adapter (IDA) to complete a seal survey.  Once that was complete, the SSRMS was maneuvered clear and powered down.

