
VEG-03 Science Harvest: The crew cut one to three leaves from each plant for consumption and then preserved them in foil and inserted them into cold stowage for science data. The remainder of the plants will be left to grow and sprout new leaves.  The Veg-03 investigation uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate a type of cabbage, lettuce and mizuna which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate a type of cabbage, lettuce and mizuna which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing. 
Multi-Omics Sample Collections: A 52S crewmember collected saliva samples and completed a questionnaire for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics experiment. The samples were placed into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem (Multi-Omics) investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system. 
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Node 3 to Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Fine Leak Check:  Today, the crew utilized the Internal Sampling Adapter (ISA), Vacuum Access Jumper (VAJ), Multimeter, and ISA Scopemeter Pressure Probe to depress the Node 3 to PMM vestibule to 5 psi for a fine leak check of the Node 3 to PMM Vestibule.  The leak check was successful. 
Spare External (EXT) Enhanced Processor and Integrated Communications (EPIC) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Build:  The crew configured and tested a spare EXT EPIC MDM.  The MDM was upgraded by swapping the Enhanced (ENH) Input/Output (I/O) Control Unit circuit card for a Pentium I/O Control Unit circuit card and connecting an EXT MDM Ethernet Cover to the new card. Then, the MDM On Orbit Tester (MOOT) hardware/software system was used to perform an IVA functionality test of the new EXT EPIC MDM and reconfigure software on the new EPIC card.  The checkout was successful.  Finally, they removed and replaced the Chotherm on the MDM. Chotherm provides a thermal barrier between MDM Chassis and coldplate.
On-Board Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous: In preparation for Orbital ATK 8 (OA-8) launch, the crew performed this proficiency training on the Cygnus profile including rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the vehicle. Cygnus is scheduled to launch Saturday, November 11th with capture and berthing Monday, November 13th. 
Mobile Serving System (MSS) Operations:  Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and are maneuvering the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) as required to use SPDM Arm1 to transfer the spare Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Transfer Interface (JOTI) on the JEM Airlock Slide Table to SPDM Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP) Side 2.  Once this has been completed the Robotics Ground Controllers will configure the SPDM and SSRMS for translation and then translate the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 7 (WS7) to WS3.

