
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Pneumatonometer (PTM), electroretinography(ERG), Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2), and Blood Pressure data was collected. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed in support of this continuing investigation. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): Lens was changed to the 85mm lens in support of EarthKAM mission #86. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Lumina (Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter): Lumina hardware was rebooted and data files were transferred to the ground. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Operations: The crew completed several activities as part of regular ISS systems maintenance. A Gas Trap Plug was removed from the Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) in support of the upcoming Removal and Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) installation. The Camera Light and Pan Tilt Unit (PTU) was reconfigured to improve stowage efficiency. The Node 3 Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) Inlet Screens were vacuumed and photo documented. 
IFM – Purge Pump and Separator Assembly (PPSA) Removal and PCPA Installation: Within the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA), the PPSA was reverted to the legacy PCPA. In July, the UPA was upgraded by replacing the PCPA with PPSA. Recently, the system has been suffering high pressure issues and have been unable to process urine. Ground teams concluded PPSA to be the cause of the issue and reverted back to the PCPA in order to return UPA to a nominal configuration. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS EveryWear (EVW) Medication and Nutrition Tracking: The crew recorded daily nutrition and medication intake. EVW is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general.
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: As part of nominal post-EVA procedures, the crew completed a Helmet Cleanup and Airlock Restow today. The crew cleaned leftover residue from the inside surface of the helmet bubble using anti-fog and gray tape. As Post-EVA operations are completed, certain materials and components are stowed in the airlock. The main goal of USOS EVA 89 was to retrieve the S-Band Radio Frequency Group (RFG) and perform a Trundle Bearing Assembly (TBA) Remove and Replace (R&R) on the Port Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ).
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
