
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #36: Flight Engineer (FE)-1 Kotov and FE-2 Ryazanskiy completed the EVA in 5 hours 50 min.  The following tasks were performed:

Olympic Torch Relay
Removal of YAKOR Foot Restraint (FR) from Service Module (SM) ПхО. Installation onto the EVA Work Station (VRM) did not occur after the crew experienced orientation issues with the FR. The crew was directed to bring the FR inside the DC1 to troubleshoot the problem and deploy on a future EVA.
Installation of removable swing-type handrail on EVA Work Station.
Removal of Biaxial Pointing Platform Detent (drive restrain launch bracket).
Deactivation of [РК]-21-8 monoblock “Radiometriya”, securing cable harness on monoblock.
The Crew was not able to fold the [РК]-21-8 monoblock antenna per the plan.  Specialist in Moscow were comfortable in leaving the antenna in its current configuration.
Time did not permit for the crew to take photos of Russian Segment exterior Multi-Layered Insulation (MLI).

During the EVA, FE-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg were isolated with access to the SM and 35S.  FE-3 Hopkins was isolated within MRM-2 and Soyuz 36S.  FE-7 Tyurin, FE-8 Mastracchio and FE-9 Wakata had access to modules forward of the FGB including 37S.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Lamp Replacement: Wakata reviewed overview materials, then replaced the failed FIR white light lamps as part of nominal FIR maintenance. He then closed the FIR and notified POIC that the rack was prepared for commanding.  Fluids under microgravity conditions perform differently from those on Earth. The FIR provides a central location onboard the ISS for fluid physics investigations into such areas as complex fluids (colloids and gels), instabilities (bubbles), interfacial phenomena (wetting and capillary action), and phase changes (boiling and cooling).  Understanding how fluids react in microgravity conditions may lead to improved designs for fuel tanks, water systems, and other fluid-based systems.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo Test Preparation: Wakata reviewed procedures and discussed Vertigo operations with the Payload Developer in preparation for tomorrow’s operations. The Vertigo investigation uses the SPHERES facility free-flying satellites to demonstrate and test, in a complex environment, enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. Vertigo hardware and software enables multiple SPHERES to construct three dimensional (3D) models of a target object and then explore how well the SPHERES free-flyers perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.

