
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Ultrasound scan and Blood Pressure measurements were taken to support the CIPHER study. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The EarthKAM hardware was setup in Node 2 for a weeklong imaging session. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Immunity Assay: Samples were collected, processed, and stowed in support of the Immunity Assay study. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham contact was completed with Halls Head College, Mandurah, Western Australia, Australia. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis and Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: The crew completed a regular maintenance inspection to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition. The crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play, as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play. The crew also performed additional inspections for Sorbothane residue on Snubber Pins, the Snubber Pin position within the Snubber Cup, and all tape and witness markings on the T2 Thumbwheels, Snubber Jam Nuts, and Snubber Cup Housing.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Ropes (CAR) Inspection: The crew inspected the ARED Cable Pulley system and corrected it as necessary. This maintenance is performed whenever a cable arm has come out of detent during bar exercise or a detent check. Crew partially removed and inspected each CAR for damage, reinstalled the ropes, and re-verified proper rope routing. The crew reported the cables in good shape and took photos of specified areas for ground team verification.
SpaceX Crew Dragon Emergency Operations Refresher: Today, the Endurance crew reviewed the Free-Flight Fire Response, Free-Flight Depress Response, and Emergency Departure Refresher training. The onboard reviews will ensure the crew’s training is current in the event of an emergency on the space station.
Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) Operations: Following the removal of a BPA bladder, the crew performed a deep cleaning of the BPA Brine Leak Sensor. The Brine Leak Sensor had developed copper-based corrosion over time, which was causing a false leak indication. Removal of the corrosion was completed to allow for reactivation of BPA.
