
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The Crew setup the EarthKam into Node 2 for a weeklong imaging session. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
Rodent Research-14 (RR-14): The crew installed four Rodent Habitats into the Lab module. Rodent Research–14, Microgravity as a Disruptor Of The 12-hour Circatidal Clock (RR-14), uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior.
Systems:
Cygnus NG-12 Mission:  The Cygnus vehicle (S.S. Alan Bean) successfully launched from NASA Wallops Launch Facility on Saturday, November 2 at approximately 9:00 am.  Cygnus arrived at the ISS on November 4 with capture around 3:10 am CT.  Following the capture of the Cygnus vehicle with Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the berth to the Node 1 Nadir port, the crew prepared the ISS for Cygnus ingress including performing leak checks and outfitting the vestibule for ingress.  Next, the crew ingressed the Cygnus vehicle and started on cargo transfers to the ISS.  The Cygnus/NG-12 vehicle is part of the new Commercial Resupply Services-2 (CRS-2) program that includes multiple upgrades that expands the vehicle’s capabilities.   
Mobile Servicing System:  Today, the crew monitored the vehicle approach. With Jessica Meir (M1) at the SSRMS control and Christina Koch (M2) monitoring vehicle status, they commanded the SSRMS to track and successfully captured the NG-12 Cygnus vehicle at approximately 3:10 am CT. After the capture, the Robotics Ground Controllers took control of the SSRMS and maneuvered it to the Cygnus Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (PCBM) inspection, then towards Node 1 Nadir CBM port. The Cygnus vehicle was berthed to the Station. The SSRMS will remain grappled to the vehicle until tomorrow. 

