
Personal Radiation Shielding for Interplanetary Missions (PERSEO):  Today the crew performed an initial checkout of a radiation shielding garment for the Italian Space Agency (ASI) PERSEO Project. They filled the garment with water, donned the garment, and later doffed the garment before draining the water.  PERSEO evaluates the efficacy of a personal radiation protection system, easily wearable by the astronaut and aimed at risk reduction for exposure to cosmic radiation, particularly in case of solar particle events. The garment has containers that are positioned to shield the more radiosensitive organs. Water is used because of its shielding properties and its ready availability on the ISS. The radiation protection strategy will be tested with dedicated measurements of shielding efficacy.
Airway Monitoring:  The crew set up the Airway Monitoring system in the US Laboratory module today and powered on the Enhancement Unit and the Portable Pulmonary Function System (PFS) for a software upgrade from the ground.  With dust particles present in the ISS atmosphere, Airway Monitoring studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This will help to identify health impacts and support maintenance of crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, such as to the Moon and Mars, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in identifying and avoiding such conditions.  
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS)-02:  On Sunday the AMS-02 laptop hard drive failed.  Today the crew changed out the drive and installed software on the new hard drive. AMS-02 has collected and analyzed billions of cosmic ray events, and identified millions of these as electrons or positrons (anti-matter). The number of high energy positons increases steadily rather than decaying, which is different than projections from theoretical models and indicates a yet to be identified source of positrons. Researchers have also observed a plateau in the positron growth curve and need additional data to determine why. Results suggest that high-energy positrons and cosmic ray electrons may come from different and mysterious sources. Solving the origin of cosmic rays and antimatter increases understanding of our galaxy. 
Story Time From Space: A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space project by reading I Wonder Why Stars Twinkle today while being videotaped.  The recording will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books on orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) N21B4A-B R&R:  This morning, the crew replaced RPCM N21B4A_B via a Hot Demate/Mate (HDMM).  No powerdowns were required during this operation.  A new RPCM was installed and successfully established communication with the MDM.  Downstream loads have been successfully powered on.  This R&R has recovered the Node2 ATU1.
EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance:  Today the crew performed EMU maintenance, replacing the water line vent tube assembly on EMU 3003 and refilling water tanks. 
Node 2 Overhead InterModule Ventilation (IMV) Reconfiguration:  The crew reconfigured the N2 Overhead IMV by replacing ductwork and installing a new high speed fan.  This will provide airflow to Pressurized Mating Adapter 3 (PMA-3).

