
Payloads:
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME):  A crewmember replaced the ACME Fiber Arm 1, Pressure Switch 2 with the ACME Pressure Switch Jumper, and replaced the ACME Igniter Tip 2.  This is in preparation of Flame Design part 2 operations.  The ACME project is a set of six independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR).  ACME’s primary and secondary goals are (1) improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth, and (2) spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM):  A crewmember performed the setup of the EarthKam hardware components in Node 2 for a week-long imaging session and performed the activation during a daylight pass.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM):  A crewmember prepared the LMM and associated Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Hardware for return.  The LMM is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the ISS.  The LMM enables novel research of microscopic phenomena in microgravity, with the capability of remotely acquiring and downloading digital images and videos across many levels of magnification.  The way that matter is organized and moves on the microscopic level profoundly affects the macroscopic world and an understanding of such processes helps scientists and engineers build more efficient materials and machines both for both the earth and space environments.
Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina):  A crewmember executed a data transfer using the EveryWear application.  Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation.  The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4):  A crewmember closed and disconnected gas connections to the sample chamber and configured the sample chamber for stowage. The data hard drives were then packed for return and new PK-4 hard drives were inserted in preparation for the next set of experiment runs.  Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4) is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas:  low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles:  so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
Vascular Aging:  A crewmember completed the Glucometer data transfer and performed the closeout of the test.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems:  
Alternate Current (AC) ZBook Power Chain Deploy: Today, the crew deployed a new AC ZBook power chain in Node 3 and relocated SSC9 to the newly deployed AC ZBook power chain. This deploy was in support of T2 operations. 
Solid Waste Container [КТО] USOS Audit: The crew performed an audit of the current КТОs onboard ISS to ensure appropriate КТО manifesting on future visiting vehicle flights.
Crew Departure Prep: Crewmembers returning on the Space-X Dragon vehicle are scheduled time to allow them to prepare the ISS for the arriving crew and prepare personal items for return. This preparation includes cleaning, stowage, inventory management and Portable Computer System (PCS)/Station Support Computer (SSC) management.

