
AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer) EVA preparation: The crew continued preparation for the AMS repair EVAs with procedure reviews and training.  The multiple AMS-02 repair EVAs are being performed to recover a series of cooling pumps within the AMS-02 experiment.  The first of the EVAs are currently planned to start in roughly 2 weeks.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
Astrobee: The crew participated in a conference, and then assisted with a series of Astrobee maneuvers with the goal of collecting data inside the JPM for calibration and localization.  They also assisted in a series of Astrobee movements for mobility testing. During the testing, Astrobee was able to successfully perform a series of “high performance” maneuvers including a high speed translation through the JEM, several roll/pitch/yaw maneuvers, and docking/undocking itself successfully.  Astrobee is a series of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, could eventually perform crew-monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations. 
Veg-04B: The crew performed a routine plant check.  This includes the assessment of individual plant pillows, the addition of water as necessary, photography of the Mizuna plants, and mass measurement of any broken leaves.  The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.  A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight.
Systems:
HTV8 Unberth: Today, both the crew and ground controllers worked together to prepare the HTV8 for unberth.  The crew activities included a Node 2 vestibule configuration for demate, followed by the depress of the Node 2 deck vestibule using the Pressurized Management Device (PMD).  The crew also utilized the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to maneuver the HTV8 vehicle for release from the ISS.  The crew completed release of HTV8 at 12:20 CT and atmospheric reentry over the pacific is planned for Saturday evening.
Cygnus NG-12 Mission Preparation:  With the approaching Cygnus NG-12 launch on November 2 from Wallops Launch Facility, the ISS crew continued with their preparations for the NG-12 mission including reviewing timelines, performing robotics On Board Training (OBT) as well as participating in a cargo transfer conference.

