
Russian Joint Research (RJR) Surface Sampling:  Serova performed air sampling in USOS Segment Modules (Columbus, Japanese Pressurized Module (JPM), Lab, Node 1, 2, and 3).  The investigation refines locations and surfaces prone to microbial contamination throughout the ISS, share monitoring technologies and data between NASA and Roscosmos, and provides a scientific basis for decisions about future microbial monitoring – both on ISS through its extended life, and on other future human exploration spacecraft.
Sally Ride EarthKam:  Samukutyaev and Wiseman set up EarthKam payload components in the Node 2 nadir window for a week long imaging session by middle school students. 
Zebra fish Muscle:  The crew performed periodic water maintenance on the Aquatic habitat.  For the Zebra fish that were previously preserved with paraformaldehyde, the crew performed a Zebra fixative exchange, replacing the chemical with a buffer solution.  The samples were then returned to cold stowage in the Minus Eighty degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).
Muscle Atrophy Research and Exercise System (MARES):   Wilmore retrieved the Crew transfer bag containing the MARES battery and stowed it in the Columbus in front of the MARES Payload in preparation for battery change out operations.
Biological Rhythms 48 hour:  Wiseman set up the digital walk holter electrocardiogram (ECG) and Actiwatch Spectrum equipment then started the first half of two separate 24-hour recordings.   The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew will wear an Actiwatch for 96 hours and an ECG for 48 hours. 
EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Fan Troubleshooting and Water Loop Flush:  Last week during an EMU Loop Scrub, the Fan Pump Separator (FPS) associated EMU 3005 failed to spin up. Today, Wilmore performed an inspection on the FPS that revealed no visible water. Wilmore continued with the flush and fill of the system and obtained a sample for return on Soyuz 39S. A new fan pump separator is scheduled to launch on Soyuz 41S.

