
Payloads:
Immunity Assay: Eight Purple Reaction Tubes were clipped after being in the centrifuge. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
JEM Internal Ball Camera 2: Checkout #3 was performed for the JEM Camera Robot 2 release and docking capabilities. JEM Internal Ball Camera 2 demonstrates technology for automating video and photos of research activities. Crew time is one of the most valuable resources on the ISS, and many simple, repetitive tasks could be automated. This frees up crew time for more important activities.
Life Science Glovebox (LSG): Grease was applied to the LSG Glove O-Ring. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in LSG simultaneously.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): Water samples were collected for analysis. An on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Systems:
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-19 cargo vehicle.
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: As part of nominal post-EVA procedures, the crew completed a Grease Gun Cleanup, Helmet Cleanup, and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub. The crew cleaned leftover residue from the inside surface of the helmet bubble using anti-fog and gray tape.  Excess grease was removed from EVA Grease Gun using dry wipes to prepare for stowage. An EMU loop scrub was performed as preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The main goal of USOS EVA 89 was to retrieve the S-Band Radio Frequency Group (RFG) and perform a Trundle Bearing Assembly (TBA) Remove and Replace (R&R) on the Port Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ). 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD) Sample Analysis and Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Quick-Disconnect (QD) Sampling: The TAS Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Supply QDs were sampled and cleaned in preparation for an upcoming control unit install. The crew collected both dry and wet samples and stowed into re-sealable bags.  After visually inspecting the samples, the male and female QDs were cleaned using Self Wetting Swabs.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into the Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
BPA Operations: Continuing operations from yesterday, the crew performed a deep cleaning of the BPA Brine Leak Sensor. The Brine Leak Sensor had developed copper-based corrosion over time, which was causing a false leak indication. Removal of the corrosion was completed to allow for reactivation of BPA.  A new BPA Bladder was installed following completion of the cleaning and BPA was activated.
