ISS On-Orbit Status 11/05/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which he had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-3 Romanenko terminated his 11<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 Roman assisted FE-1 Maxim Suraev in his second onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment.  Afterwards, the Pilot-M &amp; Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled &amp; stowed away, and Suraev later reported to TsUP-Moscow on his run.  Roman also took documentary photography.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO &amp; RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]
 
 With the PWS2 (Portable Workstation 2)’s 16VDC power cable connected to the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and laptop activated, CDR De Winne began Day 1 of his two-day CARD (Long Term Microgravity: Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease) activity.     [For the session, FE-1 Nicole Stott first set up the PFS (Pulmonary Function System) with PFM/PAM (Pulmonary Function Module/Photoacoustic Analyzer Module) and GDS (Gas Delivery System), which requires a 45-minute warm up of the PFM/PAM prior to use for the CARD rebreathe exercises.  Frank then donned &amp; activated the HLTA BP (Holter Arterial Blood Pressure) instrument, to run for the next 24-hrs, then calibrated the PAM for the subsequent rebreathing exercises with mixing bag, and started urine collections.  The CARD protocol included a 24h urine collection on Day 1, a 24h blood pressure monitoring with the HLTA, a blood draw (in the morning of Day 2), and five cardiac output measurements performed with the HRF-2 PFS via re-breathing technique (three double re-breathing sessions with the 4L Re-breathing Bag on Day 1 and two on Day2).]
 
 For Romanenko &amp; Suraev, it was time again for recharging the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones located in Soyuz TMA-15/19S (at FGB nadir) &amp; Soyuz TMA-16/20S (at SM aft), a monthly routine job and Roman’s third, Maxim’s second time.      [After retrieving them from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (BO), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the BO’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry &amp; landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put onboard Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]
 
 The FE-3 had several hours on his timeline for conducting a comprehensive audit/inventory of Russian SSMO medical support equipment systems, including checking for expiration dates, going by an uplinked listing of ~230 items distributed over various kits.
 
 FE-5 Williams started his day with another leak check in Node-1 on the hatch of the depressurized PMA-3 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3).    [The ISA (Internal Sampling Adapter with 5-ft VAJ (Vacuum Access Jumper) was left in place for pressure readings to continue leak check on future days.]
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Jeff Williams continued his support of the ground-controlled JAXA MS (Marangoni Surface) experiment by switching FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility) connections, inserting the MI (Marangoni Inside) cassette in the MI Core for a 1-hr leak check, then installing the MI Core into FPEF MI Body.    [Support activities included reversing the cable connections made on 11/3, i.e., disconnecting the SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility) Payload Bus Cable and connecting FPEF Payload Bus Cable plus removing the SCOF IPU (Image Processing Unit) user video cables and connecting the FPEF video cable.  In microgravity, fluids react differently to stresses when compared to the same stresses on Earth.  Understanding the responses to the stressors allows for improved fluid flow models to be designed.  Mass transfer on or in a liquid due to surface tension differences is called the Marangoni Effect (which, for example, stabilizes a soap film).  The Marangoni convection experiment in the FPEF examines fluid tension flow in micro-G:  first, a liquid bridge of silicone oil is formed into a pair of disks.  Then, using temperature differences imposed on the disks, convection is induced causing the silicone oil to move and transition through different types of flows because of its fluid instability: successively from laminar to oscillatory, chaos, and turbulence flows as the driving force increases.  The flow and temperature fields are observed in each stage and the transition conditions and processes are investigated.]
 
 As a further requirement for the usual SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) prelaunch readiness preparations, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 Williams checked out both the Cupola &amp; Lab RWS (Robotics Workstations).
 
 To prepare for the subsequent extensive FSS (Fluid Systems Servicer) operations in the Lab, FE-2 Stott cleared affected areas in the Lab by relocating equipment to temporary stowage, including the File Server, MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), Printer and SSC (Space Station Computer) laptops as needed.    [Cables were to be kept long enough to avoid power or data disconnects.]
 
 Afterwards, Bob Thirsk spent several hours using the FSS to refill ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) loops in the Lab &amp; JPM with fresh coolant, including Frank reconfiguring the JPM TCA-L (Thermal Control Assembly for LTL) Gas Trap’s manual valves for turning the gas trap heaters on (and later off again).    [This involved priming (filling) the FSS jumpers &amp; circulating coolant through them first, then charging the LTL &amp; MTL PPA (Low Temperature Loop &amp; Moderate Temperature Loop Pump Package Assembly) accumulators as well as the spare Gas Trap in the Lab.  Next, the FSS was relocated to the JPM for similarly adding coolant to the JPM MTL &amp; LTL loops and Gas Traps.  The FSS was then safed for overnight.] 
 
 Continuing EVA preparations for ULF3 in the US A/L (Airlock), Nicole checked out the two SAFER (Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue) units that will be used during ULF3 (#1003, #1006), then reported their current test parameters, plus the ones from an earlier checkout of #1006.
 
 Nicole also had an hour set aside for regular crew departure preparations, working on the standard end-of-increment cleanup preparatory to her return to Earth on STS-129/Atlantis     [It is usual for crewmembers to be granted reduced workdays for making their departure preparations, as their return date approaches.]
 
 In the SM, Suraev performed the periodic preventive maintenance on the ventilation system by changing out the cartridge of the PF1-4 dust filter.
 
 In preparation for his return to gravity on 12/1, Roman Romanenko undertook the first (of five) training session of the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular evaluation in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP) on the Russian VELO ergometer, assisting by Maxim Suraev as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [The 50-min assessment, supported by ground specialist tagup (VHF) and telemetry monitoring from Russian ground site (DO1, 11:07-11:29am), uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels. The Chibis ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Romanenko’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after several months in zero-G.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -30, and -35 mmHg for five min. each while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not /to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
 In preparation for another session of the BAR experiment, set up in the FGB, Maxim started charging the battery for the KPT-2 Kelvin-Video payload.     [Objective of the Russian BAR-EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 CDR De Winne completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.   [The current card (21-0028D) lists 78 CWCs (~1,772.3 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (65 CWCs with 1,388.1 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 196.8 L for flushing only due to Wautersia bacteria &amp; 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 2. potable water (8 CWCs with 323.1 L, of which 23.0 L (1 bag) are off-limit due to Wautersia) and 128.3 L (3 bags) good for contingency use, 3. condensate water (3 CWCs, empty), 4. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 61.1 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Frank also had another hour to continue prepacking equipment for return on STS-129/ULF3.
 
 Jeff Williams &amp; Nicole Stott reviewed RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) ops procedures, then went through their third standard 30-min Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) onboard skill training, using D2X digital still cameras with 400 &amp; 800mm lenses to take pictures of an Orbiter tile diagram as practice for the bottom-side mapping of the Atlantis using the 400mm and the 800mm lens.  Afterwards, Nicole downlinked the obtained photographs for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle (STS-129/Atlantis).  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Atlantis, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]
 
 Jeff took down the UOP DCP (Utility Outlet Panel/Display &amp; Control Panel) power bypass cable at the Lab &amp; Cupola RWS, used for video coverage of the HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) departure with the SSRMS cameras.
 
 Continuing MSL (Microgravity Science Laboratory) commissioning activities, Frank took out the used SCA (Sample Cartridge Assembly) and replaced it with a fresh test sample (MICAST #4).  The event, the first sample exchange, was video recorded with camcorder set up earlier by Nicole.     [The ESA/NASA multi-user MSL allows research with diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in micro-G to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.  MSRR (Materials Science Research Rack) experiments will be coordinated by international teams that share different parts of the samples.  There are 25 investigators on three research teams participating in the first of these investigations.]
 
 The CDR filled out the regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC.     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 At ~4:20pm EST, at sleep time, FE-1 Suraev will set up the Russian MBI-12 SONOKARD payload and start his 2<sup>nd</sup> experiment session, using a sports shirt from the SONOKARD kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 At ~7:15am, Frank De Winne held the regular tagup with the ESA staff at Col-CC (Columbus Control Center) at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany.   [This conference is scheduled once every week, between ISS crewmembers and Col-CC via S/G2 (Space-to-Ground 2) audio.]
 
 At ~10:10am, the crew joined in a 20-min PAO TV exchange with a special event sponsored by the U.S. Departments of Education &amp; State in Washington, D.C., in the Education Dept.’s auditorium, in concert with International Education Week’s 10<sup>th</sup> Year Anniversary (11/16-20).    [Two schools attended the event,- Washington Mathematics Science Technology Public Charter High School, and the Parkland Magnet Middle School for Aerospace Technology (Rockville, MD).  Also in attended were Education Secretary Arne Duncan, NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden, JSC External Relations Director Ellen Conners, JSC Education Director Susan White and Astronauts Jose Hernandez, Christer Fuglsang, Patrick Forrester and Don Thomas.] 
 
 At ~2:05pm, Russian crewmembers Romanenko &amp; Suraev will downlink three PAO TV messages of greetings: one to Moscow’s State University of Management on its 90<sup>th</sup> Anniversary, the second to the participants, organizers &amp; guests of the RAKETAFEST Rocket Model Festival, the third to RSC-Energia Vide President Arkady Leonidovich Martynovsky on his 70<sup>th</sup> Anniversary.    [The State University of Management is a major economic university in Russia and one of its leading academic and scientific centers.  Its current Rector is Alexey Mikhailovich Lyalin.  The Anniversary will be celebrated from November 23-27.-- RAKETAFEST is a unique, educational and patriotic city-wide event with social significance, supported by the Moscow City Council for Public Relations.  The Festival is conducted in the framework of a series of events in preparation for the 50<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of Yuri Gagarin’s flight to space (April 2011).]
 
 At ~2:41pm, Nicole Stott will power up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at ~2:46pm conduct a ham radio session with students at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Daytona Beach, FL, a ”virtual homecoming” since Nicole is an Alumni of ERAU-DB.    [The contact will be open to the University and Daytona Beach communities.  ERAU-DB students have been asked to submit questions for review with the top questions chosen for the interview.  The first year engineering students will attend the event as a part of their profession awareness requirement for their Introduction to Engineering Course (EGR 101).  It will also be attended by the ERAU Amateur Radio Club students to re-energize the interest in amateur radio.  In addition, the radio contact has been scheduled for the week of Embry-Riddle’s Homecoming; many Alumni are expected to be in attendance.]
 
 The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3/MO-5).
 
 Later, Jeff transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 UPA Status Update:    This morning, the DA (Distillation Assembly) was successfully drained completely into the WSTA (Waste Storage Tank Assembly), and drydown is proceeding as planned.  This is a very good sign since it shows that the blockage is clear, did not re-clog and the pump is operational.  For follow-up troubleshooting &amp; planning work in case of UPA unavailability, five specialist teams have been formed at MCC-H.
 
 MBSU1 POR Status Update:   The POR (Power-On Reset) of the Main Bus Switching Unit 1 on 11/3, which caused a brief power outage, continues to be investigated for its root cause.  All station system are fully re-configured back to normal, and nothing in the data shows that there are any residual effects of POR.  It looks like a random event, and the incidence showed that critical Bus Loss Procedures worked as expected.  
 
 CO<sub>2</sub> Update:   The Russian Vozdukh continues to be off as planned for U.S. CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) testing.  ppCO<sub>2</sub> (CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure) this morning was low, at 3.14 mmHg.
 
 ICS Testing:   Yesterday, JAXA started the planned checkout of the Inter-Satellite Communication System.  A test command was sent successfully, established forward and return links plus file transfer with ICS.  “Everything is operating nominally for ICS.”  
 
 
