
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-7 (ACE-T7) Sample Configuration:  The crew configured LMM (Light Microscopy Module) for the ACE-T-7 science run.  The ACE-T-7 module was processed prior to this increment, and this run will allow investigators to observe the structures following longer-term evolution.  The experiment involves the design and assembly of complex three-dimensional structures from small particles suspended within a fluid medium. These “self-assembled colloidal structures” are vital to the design of advanced optical materials and active devices. In the microgravity environment, insight is provided into the relation between particle shape and interparticle interactions on assembly structure and dynamics.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP):  The crew successfully performed three versions of the GRASP quasi free-floating science session.  GRASP is intended to provide insight into how the central nervous system integrates information from different sensory modalities, encoded in different reference frames, to coordinate movements of the hand with objects in the environment.  Performed on the ISS, in conjunction with a series of experiments performed on the ground, GRASP explores the interaction between all of the various sensory cues.
Plant Hab-01 Science Carrier 2 Harvest:  The crew performed the harvest on the science carrier 2 plants.  Growth of the plants was initiated on September 18 and similar to the plants grown in science carrier 1, the plants grew more slowly than expected.  Although there was no real issue with the slower growth, only one of the two plant harvests was performed as a result.  The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between various Arabidopsis plant lines grown in space and on Earth. This investigation is expected to provide key insights on major changes occurring in plants exposed to microgravity.
Plasma Kristal-4 Experiment campaign 5:  The crew performed the familiarization session in preparation for the science run next week.  PK-4 is a scientific payload for performing research in the field of ‘Complex Plasmas’: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  On Thursday evening, Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body to perform a survey of the SPDM Latching End Effector (LEE) snare cables using an External High Definition Camera. They then maneuvered SSRMS and SPDM to approach and stow SPDM on the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2).

