
35S Soyuz Relocation: Soyuz 35S and its crew consisting of Commander (CDR) Yurchikhin, Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano, and FE-6 Nyberg undocked from the ISS Mini-Research Module (MRM)-1 at 3:33 am CDT and docked to the Service Module (SM) Aft port at 3:54 am CDT. Prior to undocking, the crew performed leak checks on the vestibule and hatches between the descent and habitation modules.  Once docked to the SM Aft port, the crew repeated leak checks then opened the ISS hatch at 6:10 am CDT. This Soyuz relocation cleared the MRM-1 docking port for 37 Soyuz, which is scheduled to arrive next Thursday, November 7th.  The last Soyuz relocation occurred during Increment 24 on June 26, 2010 with Yurchikhin also as the Soyuz Commander.
Advanced Biological Research (ABRS) Checkout: Hopkins reviewed ABRS onboard training material and then completed preparations for a ground checkout of telemetry from ABRS, including preparation of a paper grid, performance of an internal cooling loop flush of the ABRS to remove any air bubbles, and installation of two new ABRS Memory Cards. There were quality issues with the observed internal rack video that ground crews are investigating. These activities are being performed in preparation for the arrival of the Advanced Plant EXperiments-02 (APEX-02) payload on the SpaceX-3 vehicle.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES)  Resonant Inductive Near-field Generation System (RINGS): Hopkins reviewed SPHERES RINGS On Board Training material and charged the batteries in preparation for an experiment run on Monday.  The RINGS experiment tests hardware and software that enable relative station keeping, maneuvering, and attitude control between two SPHERES satellites using steerable electromagnetic dipoles.
NanoRacks Module 9:  Nyberg activated and shook designated NanoRacks Module 9 mixing tubes while capturing video of her activities. This investigation results from a commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE), called the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP). Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of 17 different science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the ISS.
Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Microscope Activation and Preparation: Nyberg activated and prepared the MPSR Microscope in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) for continuation of troubleshooting image focusing issues experienced during previous use of the microscope.  This troubleshooting is a repeat of the previous test during which there were unexpected data dropouts.

