
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew replaced the smart pump bracket and smart pump tip. This is a result of an anomaly during the first run that indicated a need to increase the bio ink flow during operations. The Techshot BioFabrication Facility (BFF) is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand. 
MISSE-FF (Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility): The crew has installed three newly arrived MISSE Sample Carriers (MSCs) onto the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT-2) currently located on the JEM Airlock slide table. The slide table was extended out of the airlock and will be installed on the MISSE external platform tomorrow. The primary Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth. Testing in low-Earth orbit (LEO) allows the integrated testing of how materials react to exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), atomic oxygen (AO), ionizing radiation, ultrahigh vacuum (UHV), charged particles, thermal cycles, electromagnetic radiation, and micro-meteoroids in the LEO environment. 
NanoRacks Zero-G Oven: The crew took historical photos of the Zero-G cookie sample tin. Zero-G Oven examines heat transfer properties and the process of baking food in microgravity. It uses an oven designed specifically for use aboard the space station with a top temperature of 363.3° C. On future long-duration missions, fresh-baked food could have psychological and physiological benefits for crewmembers.
Systems:
Lab Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Scope Installation:  Today, the crew installed a borescope into the Lab P6 CCAA Heat Exchanger (currently the inactive CCAA) in preparation for the eventual installation of the Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) snorkel. The CDRA snorkel is designed to be installed in a CCAA to protect CDRA and Sabatier from water carryover from the CCAA. 
Inflight Maintenance (IFM) Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC):  Recently, the ISS crew has observed multiple instances of a Pre-Treat Bad Quality Light (PTBQL). The PTBQLs is a response to the globules in the hose or high pressure on a degraded Dose Pump following flush tank fills. Partial tank fills are currently performed as a workaround in order to protect possible Dose Pump degradation. Today, the ISS crew completed a Waste Hygiene Compartment Pre-Treat Tank Remove and Replace (R&R) to mitigate the PTBQL issue and improve the WHC processing. 
Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU): In order to satisfy maintenance requirements, the crew powered up both EMUs 3006 and 3009 in preparation for a Loop Scrub and then performed a half dump and fill on EMU 3009 feedwater tanks using iodinated water. Iodinated water is used as a biocide to maintain the sterility of the EMU cooling system. The crew also used a camcorder to record audio of EMU 3009’s fan before and after start up. These recordings are analyzed by ground teams to monitor fan bearing health.
ISS Emergency Training: The ISS crew participated in the Emergency preparation On-board Training (OBT) as part of routine safety operations on the ISS.

