
Payloads
EarthKAM (Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools): The crew deployed the Camera hardware in Node 2. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
SERFE (Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment): The crew performed a Water Sample collection and stowed the sample for return. SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crew members and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material.
Systems
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valve (ASV) 102 Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew completed the R&R of the LAB CDRA ASV 102 and the Lab CDRA closeout procedure today. The CDRA selectively removes carbon dioxide from the ISS cabin atmosphere.
Robotics On-board Trainer (RoBOT): The crew completed nominally scheduled proficiency training needed to maintain Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) qualifications. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with using SSRMS hand controllers with graphical feedback.
Joint Station LAN (JSL) Firewall R&R in Lab: Today the crew performed an R&R of the failed Lab Firewall #2. The Firewalls provide additional security to ISS computer assets and facilitate smoother integration of Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) hardware into the ISS JSL network.

