
Payloads:
ECHO: The Echo hardware was retrieved and deployed in the Columbus Module, and the ground performed maintenance activities. The purpose of the ECHO investigation is to evaluate a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes that are controlled by flight controllers on the ground. Additionally, this investigation serves to perform the commissioning of the Echo instrument, which is planned to be used for the Vascular Echo experiment in the future.
ISS Ham Radio: A crewmember initiated an ISS Ham pass with Harel Educational Campus, Holon, Israel.  Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM): The Solid Combustion hardware was removed from the Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Work Volume. The SCEM is designed to investigate the oxygen concentration required to sustain a flame over solid fuels. It is also possible to obtain the limiting electric current caused by self-ignition of the insulated wires due to short-circuit. Combustion characteristics of solid materials in the microgravity environment where no buoyancy-induced convection occurs will be identified, as well as the effect of gravity on the combustion limit of solid materials, through studies by SCEM.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: The Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) was installed into Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3004, and a powered hardware checkout was performed to verify functionality. The crew then performed an EMU water loop scrub, acquired and tested water samples for conductivity, and performed post-EMU Hard Upper Torso (HUT) remove and replace (R&R) checkout and Pre-EVA checkout steps on EMU 3004. After completing these checkouts for EMU 3004, the crew re-filled the EMU water tanks on EMU 3004 and EMU 3009. They then filled dry Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garments (LCVGs) with water from the EMU water tanks and continued preparing the Equipment Lock and EMUs 3004 and 3013 for an upcoming On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV). 
Cygnus NG-18 Arrival Preparations: The crew continued preparations for the arrival of Cygnus NG-18 on Tuesday, November 8th. NG-18 is a cargo mission, and the Cygnus vehicle will transport important science experiments, equipment, and crew provisions to the ISS. Since Cygnus is a berthing vehicle, it will approach the Node 1 Nadir port, and the crew will use the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to capture it and bring it to the port. The crew trains both on the ground and onboard the space station to assist with these robotics operations. As part of today’s arrival preparations, the crew performed an On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session and reviewed cargo operations. The crew also opened the hatch latches at Node 1 Nadir to minimize the possibility of a hatch mechanism jam due to foreign object debris (FOD) or other damage that would preclude the hatch from opening for ingress after NG-18 berth. The Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) was also installed and checked out in preparation for NG-18 arrival. The CBCS is a camera system used to provide relative state information to an SSRMS operator as a “GO / No-GO” gauge during the mating of modules and vehicles to Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) ports on the ISS.
Pressure Management Device (PMD) Valve 2 Troubleshooting: During the NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL) trash deployment in July, PMD Valve 2 became unresponsive. Today, the ground team performed commanding to PMD Valve 2 in various software states and resets while the crew provided feedback on sounds and lights from PMD. The PMD is a pump in the vestibule to put the air back into the ISS instead of venting it overboard during pressurization and depressurization, and PMD Valve 2 is the primary valve used for air save operations.
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container-Iodine (CWC-I) Fill: The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as EMU wastewater. Today’s activity involved transferring water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-I container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-Iodine from over-pressurization.

