
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew inserted a BFF Tissue Print Cassette sample into the BFF facility in order for the ground to perform a hardware checkout. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand.
ADSEP (ADvanced Space Experiment Processor): The crew installed an ADSEP Tissue print Cassette sample into the ADSEP facility in order for the ground to perform a Hardware checkout and the crew took historical photos. ADSEP is a thermally controlled single-middeck-locker equivalent that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated. Its companion hardware consists of a collection of several experiment cassettes, each doubly or triply contained, that accommodate experiments in cell technology, model organisms, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.
Materials on International Space Station Experiment (MISSE): Today, the ground robotics team, using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS), will start the transfer of Material Service Centers (MSCs) between the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) to the MISSE-FF.
Systems:
Lab Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA):  Yesterday, the crew installed a borescope into the Lab P6 CCAA Heat Exchanger (inactive CCAA) in preparation for the eventual installation of the Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) snorkel. The CDRA snorkel is designed to be installed in a CCAA to protect CDRA and Sabatier from water carryover from the CCAA. Today, the crew performed a switchover of the active Lab CCAA from the Lab S6 CCAA to the Lab P6 CCAA.  This will allow the ground characterize the baseline conditions inside the CCAA ducting. This baseline test requires the Lab cabin temperature to be lowered to 20 deg. C overnight. As a result, of the lowered temperatures, water may be observed on the Lab overhead diffusers and will be wiped up with a towel. 
Galley Rack Troubleshooting:  Today, the ISS crew performed the Galley Rack Troubleshooting Part 2.  Today’s troubleshooting determined that the Galley Rack Power Supply was the source of the overcurrent trip and the crew replaced the Galley Rack Power Supply with a spare.  The Galley Rack was restored to nominal operations.
ISS Emergency Training: The ISS crew participated in an Emergency preparation and simulation. The simulation is a practice ISS Emergency Response with the crew and ground team based on simulated conditions. In addition, the crew spent some time practicing medical contingencies and reviewed On-board Training (OBT) medical procedures and roles during a medical event requiring Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR).
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  The ISS crew performed a checkout of the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) to verify that Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) glove heaters and video systems are powered in preparation for upcoming EVAs.

