
Zebra Fish Muscle:  Gerst connected a water bag and a waste bag to the Aquatic Habitat water circulation unit and performed water exchange #7. The Zebra fish muscle experiment asks if the atrophy of muscles under the condition of microgravity also occurs in zebrafish and why their atrophy occurs in the microgravity

Cardio Ox: Wilmore, acting as the Crew Medical Officer operator, took return minus 15 days (R-15) blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of subject Gerst.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. 
Body measures:  Gerst and Wiseman set up cameras and equipment to collect calibration data, body pose photographs, circumference measurements, Neutral Body Posture video and then transferred photographs and videos to the HRF folder for downlink. This study will involve collecting anthropometric data (body measurements) using digital still and video imagery and a tape measure to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments from astronauts for pre-, post-, and in-flight conditions. 
Electromagnetic Levitation (EML):  Gerst installed the EML sample chamber onto the EML experiment module front panel in preparation for the final commissioning and checkout.  The EML provides for containerless processing of liquid metals in a micro-gravity environment and precise measurement of their thermo-physical properties.  
 Ocular Health:  Wiseman acting as crew medical officer (CMO) set up Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware and software and performed eye exams on Wilmore using the OCT Laptop.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
SPRINT:  Wiseman set up the Portable Pulmonary Function system (PFS) power, data, front panel, gas connections and set-up the Mixing Bag System (MBS) in preparation for VO2max and ultrasound sessions later this week.  Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Biological Rhythms 48 hour:  Wiseman concluded the second and final 24 hour measurement, removed the Digital Walk Holter electrocardiogram (ECG) and Actiwatch Spectrum equipment from his body and copied the Digital Walk Holter ECG data to Medical Laptop. The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew will wear an Actiwatch for 96-hour and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48-hour. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle school students (EarthKam):  Russian crew member Samokutyaev performed a lens exchange, configuring the EarthKam camera with a 180mm lens. With this camera lens exchange complete, middle school students will continue with imaging sessions. 
39S Crew Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review:  Samokutyaev, Serova, and Wilmore reviewed the General Instructions section of the ISS Emergency Book.   Priorities during an emergency response include safety of the crew followed by achieving a safe configuration of the ISS. To meet those priorities, the review covers crew accountability, escape vehicle access, maintenance of Soyuz configuration, ISS CDR Responsibility, procedure strategy and intent, communication and coordination.  In addition, the crew reviewed instructions for specific emergency cases such as Fire, Rapid Depress, and Toxic Atmosphere. 

