
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The crew configured the camera, laptop and associated Sally Ride EarthKAM software at the Node 2 Nadir hatch window. Once configured, the EarthKAM team, in association with middle school students around the world, selected image targets which will be downlinked and used in the study of physics, computers, geography, math, earth science, biology, art, history, and cultural studies. The objective of Sally Ride EarthKAM is to integrate Earth images with inquiry-based learning to enhance curricula in support of national and state education standards; to provide students and educators the opportunity to participate in a space mission and to develop teamwork, communication, and problem solving skills; to engage teams of students, educators, and researchers in collaborative investigations using remotely-sensed data; and to incorporate the active use of Web-based tools and resources in support of the learning process.
Culture, Values, and Environmental Adaptation in Space (At Home in Space): The crew answered the first of two At Home in Space questionnaires, the second to be scheduled at roughly Return-30 days (R-30).  The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) experiment, At Home in Space, assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the space craft by creating a home in space. At Home In Space uses a questionnaire battery to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth.
Radi-N2: The Russian crew collected the Radi-N2 detectors from their locations in the Russian Segment and handed them over to the US crew who deployed the eight detectors in the US Lab, then took photographs of their locations.  The detectors will remain in the Lab location for one week. Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2) is a follow on investigation designed to characterize the neutron radiation environment aboard the International Space Station (ISS). Eight neutron “bubble detectors” produced by the Canadian company Bubble Technology Industries are attached to fixed locations inside the ISS, including one carried by a crew member. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crew members’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Maintenance:  The OGS Hydrogen On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) has an ailing electrolysis cell that no longer makes it desirable to run. Today the prepared for the significant maintenance scheduled on OGS later this week. Today’s task included a procedure review followed by a conference with ground specialist and the H2 sensor replacement. The work to recover the OGS will include replacing the Deionizing Bed ORU (planned to be performed on Tuesday) and Hydrogen ORU (planned to be performed on Wednesday), as well as a flush of the OGS Recirculation Loop to clear out the build-up of chemical species which have accumulated over years of operation that are potentially harmful to OGS. 
Orbital ATK (OA)-5 Cargo Operations:  As of the last report the crew had completed 16 hours of cargo transfer with an estimated 10 hours remaining.

