
Standard Measures: The crew collected blood and saliva samples in support of the Standard Measures investigation.  The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions. 
ISS HAM: A crewmember completed a contact pass with the Private UKEB School, Izmir, Turkey.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Rodent Research-14 (RR-14): The crew transferred Rodent Habitats 1 & 2 to Lab from Cygnus.  Rodent Research–14, Microgravity as a Disruptor Of The 12-hour Circatidal Clock (RR-14), uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior. 
TangoLab-2 (Space Tango MultiLab Locker): The crew removed Card Cube sample 014 from TangoLab-2 and installed 012.  TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS. 
Veg-04B: The crew performed a routine plant check, and watered the plants as needed.  The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-0404A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Systems:
Cygnus NG-12 Operations:  Today, the ISS crew continued to work on Cygnus cargo transfer to the ISS including unpacking and transferring time critical payloads. In addition, the crew also completed the Cygnus Emergency Review On-Board Training (OBT). The Cygnus/NG-12 vehicle is part of the new Commercial Resupply Services-2 (CRS-2) program that includes multiple upgrades that expands the vehicle capabilities.

