
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Four Actiwatch Plus devices were connected to the HRF-1 Payload Drawer on the HRF-1 Rack for data downlink and charging. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light start-of-day assessment was performed in support of this continuing investigation. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
CLINGERS: Software was uploaded to one of the two CLINGERS units in preparation of Astrobee flyer operations. Flight Tech Demo of Docking/Undocking CubeSats Inside ISS (CLINGERS) uses the ISS’s Astrobee robots to demonstrate an adaptor for docking and close approach sensing to connect both active and passive objects in space. These are critical functions to enable applications such as satellite servicing, orbital refueling, spacecraft repair and upgrade, and in-orbit manufacturing.
Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST): Foam inserts were attached to the FROST2 unit. The FROST facility is an active freezer/refrigerator used aboard the ISS. FROST offers cold stowage capability inside of the JEM and is commonly used to support the low temperature experiments.
Immunity Assay: Hardware was gathered for upcoming Immunity Assay operations. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham contact was made with Walkerston State School in Walkerston, Queensland, Australia. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): A CO2 measurement probe was installed into SABL-1 for a sensor calibration. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. The SABL unit also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Distillation Assembly (DA) Maintenance: Today, the crew performed maintenance on the UPA DA in order to further troubleshoot the errors in UPA. Over the last month, the ground team has seen various pressure issues with UPA. Initially, a Purge Pump and Separator Assembly (PPSA) Remove and Replace (R&R) was conducted by the crew on October 23rd. This R&R did not solve the issues, so the crew performed a valve inspection and subsequent Scroll Pump R&R on October 27th, which returned UPA to an operational state. After processing for a short time, UPA began experiencing pressure issues again. The crew performed DA maintenance as a further step to mitigate these issues, and the ground team will assess the results of the maintenance.
IFM Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Hydrogen Sensor R&R & Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Cleaning: Today, the crew replaced the Hydrogen Sensor in the OGA and cleaned the OCA AAA Muffler Filter and Manifold Inlet Screen as part of nominal maintenance procedures. They also obtained a water sample from the OGA recirculation loop for return-to-ground analysis and replaced the ACTEX cartridge inside the OGS rack. The AAA provides cooling for equipment that is not cooled by cold plates. A fan and noncondensing heat exchanger provide cooling for rack equipment and circulation for operation of the smoke detectors.
Dragon Vehicle Operations Computer Based Training (CBT): The crew performed CBT for Cargo Dragon operations in preparation for the arrival of SpX-29. This included an overview of the SpX-29 vehicle, its mission profile and docked phase, the Cargo Dragon interior crew interfaces, and the capabilities and configuration of the Cargo Dragon. SpX-29 will remain docked to the ISS for about a month before returning to Earth with valuable science and hardware.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) External Surveys: The ground team performed an external survey of the International Docking Adapter 2 (IDA2) Seal and plans to perform an external survey of the Pressurized Mating Adapter 2 (PMA2). Both of these surveys use the SSRMS cameras for imagery to ensure that the docking port is ready for the SpX-29 arrival.
