
Observation Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Sample Exchange:  Kononenko performed an OASIS sample exchange today, installing the fourth of four sample cartridges into the experiment hardware housed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and in cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
 
Cognition:  Lindgren performed his Flight Day 103 session of the Cognition experiment.  Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Journals: Kelly completed a Journals entry today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  The US Crew prepared for the P6 Return To Original Configuration (RTOC) EVA scheduled for Friday, November 6th.  Today, they reviewed procedures and Ammonia related refresher material, then followed up with a conference with ground specialists to answer any questions.  In addition, Kelly and Lindgren configured EVA tools and installed new Long Life Batteries and Metal Oxide Cartridges onto the Extravehicular Mobility Units.
 
 

