ISS On-Orbit Status 11/07/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday –light-duty day for the crew.
 
  FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which he had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  The crewmembers performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  Suraev also did the periodic checkup behind ASU panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
  As part of the house cleaning, Suraev &amp; FE-3 Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9).
 
  In addition, Roman completed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM and FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
  Later, Maxim performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  At ~7:50am EST, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  After last night’s station configuration changes for a possible decrewing due to the threat of an overnight collision with Object 80908, which included USOS (US Segment) hatch closures, FE-5 Williams reconfigured the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control) rack jumpers in the US Lab to nominal.     [The contingency preparations were essentially those normally used for Soyuz relocation during three-crewmember station occupancy.  Jeff today jumpered the racks in the forward endcone and at the LAB1P3 location from LTL (Low Temperature Loop) back to the Lab MTL (Medium Temperature Loop), i.e., single loop configuration.  During yesterday’s ITCS preparation for the decrewing, the LAB1D1 MTL return QD (quick disconnect) leaked when Jeff tried to demate it (less than 1% was lost from the accumulator.).  This happened again during several subsequent attempts.  The LAB1D1 rack was left unconnected to LTL, the usual uncrewed precaution.  The Lab endcone and P3 racks were properly connected to LTL.  Engineers are planning forward action for the QD.]
 
  CDR De Winne performed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC laptops.
 
  After several days of (successful) performance testing of the U.S. CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly), FE-1 Suraev re-activated the Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> scrubber of the Russian SOA Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem, checking BVK1,2 valve group operation.
 
  Nicole Stott filled out her regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  Jeff Williams restowed the ISS Leak Kit, used to check the Node-1/PMA-3 hatch for hermeticity, at its nominal location in PMA-1 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 1).
 
  FE-4 Bob Thirsk performed two EPO (Education Program Operations) segments as VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) tasks, leading off with a demo of CCISS (Cardiovascular &amp; Cerebrovascular Control on Return from the ISS) activities, for which Bob configured CCISS hardware and recorded a three-minute video. CCISS equipment and the HRF Rack in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) remained unpowered during the demo &amp; narration.  [There are several cardiovascular changes that result from long-duration exposure to a near-weightless environment.  The heart muscle that has not had to work as hard can get weaker without regular exercise.  Most importantly though, the blood vessels have not had to constrict in the same way they do on Earth.  Normally, the blood pressure or “baro”-receptors detect changes in blood pressure as we change posture and they stimulate the blood vessels, especially in the lower part of the body, to contract and the heart to beat faster.  This reflex mechanism is not required in space.  The CCISS project attempts to determine precisely why the baroreceptors and other aspects of the cardiovascular system are less efficient after long-duration space flight.]
 
  For the second VolSci segment, the Canadian flight engineer used the G1 camcorder to record video of his demonstrating the Radi-N protocol.     [10-30% of space radiation inside the ISS is caused by neutrons, primary ionizing particles, colliding with physical matter and can cause serious damage to internal organs since, not carrying a charge, they can penetrate deep.  Researchers at CSA (Canadian Space Agency), Moscow’s IBMP (Institute of Biomedical Problems) &amp; RSC-Energia have devised an ingenious study called Radi-N to measure the neutron radiation levels on the ISS,- using bubble detectors, i.e., test tubes with a clear polymer gel which retains bubbles created by the contact of a neutron with a droplet of superheated liquid.  The number of bubbles in the gel is proportional to the amount of neutron radiation, and an automatic reader is used to count the bubbles and calculate the radiation dose.] 
 
  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-5 Williams continued his support of the MS (Marangoni Surface) equipment for ground-controlled operation of the MI (Marangoni Inside) convection experiment.     [Today, Jeff connected IPU (Image Processing Unit) user video cables between FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility) and the IPU.  Later, Jeff removed the experiment cover plate, removed the P12 load connector at the FPEF (connected yesterday) and closed the cover plate.   Background:  In microgravity, fluids react differently to stresses when compared to the same stresses on Earth.  Understanding the responses to the stressors allows for improved fluid flow models to be designed.  Mass transfer on or in a liquid due to surface tension differences is called the Marangoni Effect (which, for example, stabilizes a soap film).  The Marangoni convection experiment in the FPEF examines fluid tension flow in micro-G:  first, a liquid bridge of silicone oil is formed into a pair of disks.  Then, using temperature differences imposed on the disks, convection is induced causing the silicone oil to move and transition through different types of flows because of its fluid instability: successively from laminar to oscillatory, chaos, and turbulence flows as the driving force increases.  The flow and temperature fields are observed in each stage and the transition conditions and processes are investigated.]
 
  CDR &amp; FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Jeff at ~10:30am, Frank at ~3:20pm EST.
 
  The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), T2 treadmill (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).
 
  Later, Frank transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked last night to the crew for their reference, updated with yesterday’s CWC (Collapsible Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (21-0028E) lists 77 CWCs (~1,734.3 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (64 CWCs with 1,350.1 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 158.8 L for flushing only due to Wautersia bacteria &amp; 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 2. potable water (8 CWCs with 323.1 L, of which 23.0 L (1 bag) are off-limit due to Wautersia) and 128.3 L (3 bags) good for contingency use, 3. condensate water (3 CWCs, empty), 4. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 61.1 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Conjunction Update:    Preparations for a possible collision with Object 80980 proved unnecessary (and ran into a snag with an ITCS coolant connector, see above).  By ~7:00pm EST last night, NASA FCT (Flight Control Team) had received two updates, from two different sensor sources, which were consistent with each other and with previous tracking such that the PC (Probability of Collision) had dropped below the actionable threshold.  FTC stood down from planning to put the crew in the Soyuz vehicles.
 
 
