ISS On-Orbit Status 11/09/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After wakeup, FE-2 Tarelkin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
FE-1 Novitskiy completed the daily reboot of the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops.
 
CDR Williams had Day 4 of her 5<sup>th</sup> and final (FD180) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period after start of pH testing. After recording her diet input today, Suni began the urine collections for her Nutrition/Repository/Pro K 24-hour protocol and then prepared the equipment for the associated blood sampling (fasted) tomorrow (11/10), with Pro K photography.      [For the Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) protocol, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.  Background on pH: In chemistry, pH (Potential Hydrogen) is a measure of the acidity or basicity of a watery solution.  Pure water is neutral, with a pH close to 7.0 at 25 degC.  Solutions with a pH less than 7 are “acidic” and solutions with a pH greater than 7 are “basic” or “alkaline”.  pH measurements are important in medicine, biology, chemistry, agriculture, forestry, food science, environmental science, oceanography, civil engineers and many others.]
 
FE-6 Hoshide completed Day 3 of his own 5<sup>th</sup> (FD180) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol.  After recording his diet input and setting up the equipment today, Akihiko will begin urine collections tomorrow, Saturday (11/10) and blood sampling (fasted) on Day 5, Sunday (11/11), with Pro K photography.
 
FE-4 Malenchenko undertook his 4<sup>th</sup> MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) tests, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, preceded by PZEh-MO-8 BMM (body mass measurement) using the IM device.      [Supported by the RSS-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with Yuri’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.]
 
After CDR Williams broke out and set up the HMS USND-2 (Health Maintenance Systems Ultrasound 2) equipment, she, Ford &amp; Hoshide performed the periodic eye scan on each other, with Kevin first acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer)/Operator for Suni &amp; Aki as subjects and then becoming the subject for Suni as Operator.  Ford later transferred the data for downlink and stowed the equipment.       [Objective of the Ultrasound scans, the first for Kevin, the 2<sup>nd</sup> for Suni &amp; Aki, was an eye examination for the three subjects, using the 12L-RS Ultrasound Scanning Probe, USND Echo gel, and the G1s camcorder (VCA2/Video Camera Assembly 2) to document the measurements.]
 
In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Sunita later configured the equipment for the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring experiment and then began her 4<sup>th</sup> and final inflight session, after preparing the Actiwatches, electrode sites, attaching the harness and donning the Cardiopres with the assistance of Kevin Ford.  At ~11:35am EST, Sunita observed the initial 10-min rest period under quiet, restful conditions before going about her business. As usual, the session is continuing overnight.      [The goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  Each experiment session consists of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session. The FD75 echo scan session will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Suni started the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment, switching Makita batteries for the Cardiopres as required.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
In support of Suni’s ICV run, Aki charged 2 Makita power tool batteries during the day.     [This morning, after much troubleshooting on the ground, there were at least one good pair of Makita onboard batteries to get the CDR through the overnight data take without her having to wake up to change out the batteries. It is suspected that it is difficult to seat the batteries in the SMPA (Scope Meter Power Adapter) chargers, but if they are left long enough they do eventually charge. These batteries are used primarily for payloads and are not used that often. The remaining two batteries are being changed out throughout the day. It appears that the SMPA 1007 charger and the battery cup in the Lab are degraded.  The good SMPA (1008) and battery cup in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) are good and will be moved to the Lab after ICV is done.]
 
Malenchenko had another 1h45m for prepacking oborud (equipment) to be loaded on the Soyuz 31S Descent Capsule (SA).
 
Evgeny Tarelkin continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today working several hours in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok).    [Using a vacuum cleaner and soft brush, Evgeny cleaned the detachable fan screens 1, 2, 3 of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4), plus the fixed GZhT4 grill, and also replaced the PS1 &amp; PS2 dust filter cartridges with new ones.]
 
Later, Oleg Novitskiy performed preventive maintenance in the MRM1 “Rassvet” module, replacing the SKPF1&amp; SKPF2 dust filters and cleaning the GZhT gas/liquid heat exchanger fan grill, with changes reflected in the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
FE-4 Yuri Malenchenko completed his 2<sup>nd</sup> preliminary (predvariteljnaya) orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test run with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for his return to gravity on 11/18 with Soyuz 31S (along with Sunita Williams &amp; Akihiko Hoshide), conducting the ODNT exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.  FE-2 Tarelkin acted as CMO for Yuri.   FE-4 was supported in his one-hour session by telemetry downlink/monitoring via VHF at 7:05am-8:00am EST.        [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmember’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  The preparatory training consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -30, and -35 mmHg for five min. each while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure and the REG ShKO Rheoencephalogram Biomed Cap, supported by the Gamma-1M biomed data control system. The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
FE-6 Hoshide continued his research with the onboard JAXA DK (Diagnostic Kit), today using the stethoscope for measuring heart sounds and analyzing the data on the MEC. The activity was downlinked in real time and observed on the ground by medical specialists via USB camera.    [Purpose of these activities is to perform diagnostic measurements with medical equipment in order to evaluate the equipment for development of a future diagnostic system on board.  DK includes: Medical laptop, USB Camera, Pulse Oximeter, Stethoscope, Sleep Monitor and Digital Walk Holter/Electrocardiograph and Electroencephalograph (for brain waves).]
 
Afterwards, Aki worked on the MOST AQH (Medaka Osteoclast Aquatic Habitat), performing another careful bubble removal from the water in Aquarium 1 &amp; 2 using a customized bubble remover, which sucks out the air bubbles.    [The regular feeding of the Medaka fish is done about three times daily under remote command from SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center) and sometimes observed by the crew on a monitor.]
 
In COL, Kevin Ford supported the running ESA TriTel (Three-Axis Telescope) payload experiment, transferring experiment data to USB jump drive and preparing them for OCA downlink.     [The TriTel 3D Detector Telescope investigation characterizes the radiation environment within COL with high accuracy, using a combination of three different detector types – Silicon, ThermoLuminescent &amp; Solid State Nuclear Track Detectors – to measure the radiation amount, direction and history of radiation.  This allows determination of, among else, two very important values to humans: absorbed dose and dose equivalent from solar and galactic radiation.  Thus, the goal of the TriTel study includes obtaining temporal information (radiation history) in order to describe the radiation environment in COL, specifically regarding the dose equivalent rate, the occurrence of solar particle events (SPEs), the contributions from galactic radiation and solar radiation, and the improved estimation of the dose equivalent of the space flight crew.]
 
FE-1 Novitskiy shut down the transmitter of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) Sputnik comm system for the MAI-75 experiment, part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops, after monitoring it three times during the day. The experiment has run for two days with 3 back–to-back SSTV ham radio sessions to be received by ground stations including the one at MAI, plus video from the station’s Photo Album. After deactivating the equipment, Oleg tore it down for stowage.     [This is essentially an ARISS (Amateur Radio from ISS) ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver &amp; Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking selected photographic images to the ground station at MAI. To date, there have been 9 runs with MAI-75 on board the ISS. The payload is named after the renowned MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute) whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]
 
Sunita Williams readied the equipment for taking measurements for the JAXA BLR48 (Biological Rhythms 48/BIORHYTHMS) experiment and then started the session by putting on a wrist-worn Actiwatch Spectrum instrument (#9002).      [First, Suni uses Holter 1 for data recording, then swaps it with Holter 2, Multi Media memory card and fresh AAA battery after 24 hrs (and 10 min after power-up) for another 24 hrs. Objective of this study for Suni &amp; Aki is to examine the circadian variation of astronaut’s digital electrocardiograph during space flights using the cardiac autonomic function of the “Digital Walk Holter ECG” with its electrodes attached to the chest and the wrist-worn Actiwatch Spectrum activity monitor to supplement circadian rhythms data. For Aki only, the objective is also the long-term ODK2 (Onboard Diagnostic Kit 2) evaluation of a remote healthcare system’s operability and accuracy with the collected data, in order to develop a computerized remote healthcare system for astronauts.]
 
The three Russian crewmembers had 2 hrs set aside for the standard “symbolic” activities with commemorative items, today signing &amp; stamping envelopes.  Kevin, Aki &amp; Suni participated in signing the Roskosmos envelopes.     [The Progress 49P-delivered “Symbolic” kits contained 60 Roskosmos envelopes with the Exp-33 mission logo, to be stamped “55 Years since Launch of the first man-made Earth Satellite” and signed by the crew.] 
 
Ford reviewed OBT (Onboard Training) material for servicing the VIABLE experiment (eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS) which involves touching and blowing the top of each of 4 VIABLE bags in the FGB (loc. 409) where they are stowed to collect environment samples.    [This investigation evaluates microbial biofilm development on space materials.  Objectives are to determine the microbial strain producing the anti-biofilm product, evaluate the chemical nature of the anti-biofilm product, study the innovative materials which are chemo-physically treated, and address the biological safety issues associated with microbial biofilms.  Background: Most surfaces are covered with microorganisms under natural conditions.  The process by which a complex community of microorganisms is established on a surface is known as biofilm formation.  Microbial biofilms can exist in many different forms by a wide range of microorganisms.  The process of biofilm formation is a prerequisite for substantial corrosion and/or deterioration of the underlying materials to take place.  VIABLE samples are composed by both metallic and textile space materials either conventional or innovative (Aluminum, Armaflex and Betacloth).  They are placed inside four foam lined Nomex bags, specifically:  Pouch 1 - untreated space materials; Pouch 2 - space materials pre-treated with biosurfactants; Pouch 3 - space materials pre-treated with hydrogen peroxide; Pouch 4 - space materials chemo-physically pre-treated with silica and silver coating.]
 
Later, FE-3 completed his weekly task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire which he started after Soyuz launch on a daily basis and continues on ISS on an SSC/Station Support Computer for every week after his first week in space.
 
Kevin also had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in her electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).   [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Started yesterday as a handover, Aki today again performed the periodic (almost daily) service of the WRS (Water Recovery System), using the Russian pumping equipment to initiate the periodic water transfer from a degassed CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated) to the WPA WST (Water Processor Assembly Water Storage Tank) via “tee” hose and a freshly installed MRF (Microbial Removal Filter) cartridge as gas trap. Later in the day, the CWC-I was swapped with another one and the process continued. 
 
Oleg took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Evgeny completed the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Before Presleep (~2:30pm EST), Suni powers up the MPC and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Suni turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
At ~2:55am EST, Malenchenko, Tarelkin, Williams, Ford &amp; Hoshide held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Main Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~3:30am, Yuri, Evgeny &amp; Oleg linked up with TsUP-Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~9:45am, Aki Hoshide powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and conducted a ham radio session with students at G. Marconi High School in Casamassima, Italy.
 
At ~12:40pm, Suni conducted the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
At ~1:30pm, Williams &amp; Ford conducted a phone conference with the PLUTO (Plug-In Port Utilization Officer) flight control team at MCC-Houston.
 
At ~2:10pm, the crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4/2x), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2).     [CDR &amp; FE-6 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Suni on Friday, for Aki on Thursday.  If any day is not completed, Suni &amp; Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day. Suni’s protocol for today shows no exercise (Friday), with ARED/CEVIS (continuous), T2 (interval, 2 min.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.), T2 (int., 30 sec.), ARED/T2 (cont.), T2 (int., 4 min.), none, ARED/T2 (cont.) and T2 (2 min) for the next 9 days. Aki’s protocol for today shows ARED/T2 (cont.), with T2 (int. 2 min.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.), T2 (int., 30 sec.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.), none, T2 (int., 4 min.), ARED/T2 (cont.), T2 (int. 2 min.) and ARED/CEVIS on the following 9 days.  Note: After 10 min. warmup (active, i.e., motorized): Aerobic “T2 30 sec” (passive, i.e., nonmotorized) = 7-8 sets of exercise at HRmax (max. heart rate) for 30 sec, with 15 sec rest in between.  Aerobic “T2 2 min” (motorized) = 6 sets of 2 min each at 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%, 90%, 80% HRmax.  Aerobic “T2 4 min” (motorized) = 4 sets of 4 min, with 3 min rest period in between. ]
 
Tasks listed for FE-4 Malenchenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U  to record target sites on the Earth surface, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
WHC Update:   Yesterday, Suni Williams performed an R&amp;R (Remove &amp; Replace) of the pre-treat tank of the Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment to clear the Bad Pre-Treat Quality sensor indication seen after the dose pump replacement earlier this week.  The pre-treat tank R&amp;R was successful, and the WHC has been cleared for nominal operations.
 
WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (32-0005H) lists 20 CWCs (288.73 L total), including 1 empty bag, for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (3 CWCs with 98.1 L);  2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 14.0 L; plus 1 empty bag);  3. Iodinated water (11 CWCs with 164.45 L); 4. Waste water (1 CWC with 9.68 L bag EMU waste water), and 5. Special Fluid (OGS) (1 CWC with 2.5 L). Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) Note:  ISS daylight-awake orbit tracks have reached a seasonal pattern in which they temporarily parallel the terminator.  Consequently most of the nadir views of CEO targets fall below the accepted criterion for illumination, with darkness to the left of track and adequate lighting right of track.  This condition is expected to persist for the next few days with minimal illumination for a few targets possible as early as tomorrow. Today only one target had marginal illumination. CEO is continuing to look for dynamic-event targets for which oblique views to right of track will be useful, especially aerosol sites where obliques can be very useful.  CEO will also continue to take advantage of nighttime photography opportunities of cities in oblique, short-lens views.
 
CEO targets uplinked for today were NE United States—Storm Sandy Aftermath. 2 opportunities (International Disaster Charter activation.  A second storm has caused further flooding in the Northeast USA.  But weather is predicted clear for New Jersey and New York coastlines tomorrow: looking right to shoot detailed images of the shorelines. Camera settings for lower illumination will be needed. At 2<sup>nd</sup> pass, looking left on the Delmarva Peninsula and further north to New Jersey).
<a name="_GoBack"></a> 


