
MBSU transfer and installation:  On Friday, ground controllers attempted to transfer the recently repaired spare Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) through the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (A/L) and install it on its stowage location on External Stowage Platform 2 (ESP2).  The JEM A/L outer door opened as commanded, but the slide table did not respond to ground commanding via the Airlock Control & Display Unit- Remote Control (ACDU-RC).  The crew was able to command the slide table (bypassing the ACDU-RC) to extend outside on Saturday.  Robotics operations proceeded nominally after that and the MBSU was installed in its stowage location.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock:  After the MBSU transfer over the weekend, the JEM A/L was repressurized and the slide table was brought into the JEM.  The JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) was removed and Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) was installed in preparation for upcoming an upcoming NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD) deployment series. 
Microbial Tracking-2:  Over the weekend and today, a 52S crewmember took saliva samples to support the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation. The Microbial Tracking series-2 continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the International Space Station (ISS). It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms aboard the ISS. Crew samples from pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight times in addition to environmental samples from ISS surface and air locations will be collected to analyze any associations between the microbial content of the samples, as well as potential health effects. 
Lighting Effects:  A 52S crewmember conducted the second half of a two week long Sleep Shift session by tracking his daily sleep patterns and wakefulness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Astrobee JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) Mapping: To develop a programing map of the ISS, today the crew configured digital camera equipment, used a light meter to measure lighting, and took photos that will make a panorama of the interior of the JPM.  Astrobee is set to arrive on the ISS in Spring 2018, and consists of three self-contained, free flying robots and a docking station for use inside the ISS. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Multi-Omics Sample Collections: This morning, a 52S crewmember collected saliva samples and completed a questionnaire for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics experiment. The samples will be placed into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem (Multi-Omics) investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system. 
Airway Monitoring Overview and Setup: The crew reviewed reference material and gathered hardware to support tomorrow’s Airway Monitoring session. With dust particles present in the International Space Station atmosphere, Airway Monitoring studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This helps to highlight any health impacts and to maintain crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, especially longer-duration missions to the Moon and Mars for example, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in highlighting and avoiding such conditions.  
Biological Experiment Laboratory (BioLab) Exchange Door Inspection: The crew checked the commanding capability of the BioLab experiment container exchange door. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms. 
Orbital-ATK 8 (OA-8) On-board Training (OBT): In preparation for OA-8 berth, currently planned for November 13, the USOS crew conducted Robotic On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) OBT with support from ground teams. The crew reviewed capture procedure, mission profile overview, rendezvous crew procedures and interfaces for monitoring/commanding Cygnus. They also practiced a 30 meter approach and 2 Capture Point hold runs.

