
Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Low Temperature Protein Crystal Growth (JAXA LT PCG): The crew retrieved JAXA LT PCG samples from the General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER)1 unit and stowed them in the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Capsule Carrier. The goal of the JAXA LT PCG experiment is to produce high quality protein crystals in a microgravity environment at a low temperature.
HTV Small Re-entry Capsule (HSRC): The crew completed Parts 2 and 3 of the HTV Capsule Assembly. They also completed final closeout of the Capsule Support Plate on the HTV-7 bulkhead prior to vestibule demating. The HSRC is designed to return relatively small payloads to the ground. The HSRC is 840mm in diameter, 190kg in weight, and contains roughly 30L pressurized volume for sample return. Splashdown is scheduled to occur at 4:06 pm (CT) on Saturday, November 10.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The crew initiated the second of four PK-4 experiment runs with the start of Particle Trapping via the European Physiology Module (EPM) laptop commanding using Neon Gas. This will allow clouds of particles to be captured inside the PK-4 chamber. Between the two scripts, it is desired to perform four successful trappings. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas” which are low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles – so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
HTV7 Departure Preparations:  The crew completed loading ~74 Cargo Transfer Bag Equivalent (CTBEs) of trash into the HTV vehicle. The crew configured the vestibule for demate by removing Air Revitalization System (ARS) jumper, Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) supply jumper, 1553/ENET A and B jumper, and disconnecting the Node 2 HTV channel 2 power jumper. They also installed the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs). HTV-7 is scheduled to unberth tomorrow, November 7.
Life Support Rack (LSR) Ground Initial Activation and Checkout:  The ground began LSR activation and checkout, which will continue throughout the next several days. LSR is an ESA technology demonstrator for closed loop air revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.

