
Payloads:
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed in support of this continuing investigation. Circadian Light tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Systems:
USOS Post ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: The crew completed various operations to conclude the USOS EVA #89 that was performed yesterday by NASA astronauts Jasmin Moghbeli and Loral O’Hara. They completed Post-EVA Examinations, Glove Photo Downlink, Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge, Space Station Computer (SSC) Relocation to Pre-EVA Locations, Robotics WorkStation (RWS) Teardown, Airlock Deconfiguration, High Definition EVA Camera Assembly (HECA) Terminate, Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration, and a team EVA Debrief.
Space Station Robotic Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector A (LEE A) Survey: The ground team completed a survey of LEE A using remote commanding. The SSRMS was used to position LEE A in front of the External High Definition Camera (EHDC) and the LEE A snares were partially closed to prepare for the survey. All data was downlinked to the ground for review. 
Dragon Vehicle Operations Computer Based Training (CBT): The crew performed CBT for Cargo Dragon operations in preparation for the arrival of SpX-29. This included an overview of the SpX-29 vehicle, its mission profile and docked phase, the Cargo Dragon interior crew interfaces, and the capabilities and configuration of the Cargo Dragon. SpX-29 will remain docked to the ISS for about a month before returning to Earth with valuable science and hardware.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Exam: The crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
