
Payloads
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2) – The crew retrieved the eight Radi-N2 bubble detectors from the JEM Panel FD3/JPM1F3 location and handed the detectors to the Russian crew for processing and data download. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Standard Measures – The crew performed Saliva collections in support of the Standard Measures study. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Space Organogenesis – The crew performed a partial setup of the microscope that will be used for experiment samples arriving on SpaceX-21. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell culture on Earth needs supportive materials or forces to achieve 3D growth, but in microgravity cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions without those devices.
Systems
Node 3 Port Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Inspection – In preparation for SpaceX-21 and the arrival of the NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL), ground teams performed an inspection on the Node 3 Port CBM.  There was a very small torque spike noted on one of the latches during both deploy and retract functions.  It is not considered an issue going forward, but will be monitored by ground teams during future use.  The checkout was considered successful and the Node 3 Port is ready for NRAL installation. 
Install Internal Wireless Instrumentation System Remote Sensor Unit (IWIS RSU) in SM-PRK – The Crew installed the IWIS Accelerometer Interface Plate, Accelerometer, and RSU in the PRK and connected the accelerometer and power cables. This sensor unit will be used to monitor structural response changes possibly induced by a crack causing atmosphere leak. 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Direct Drive Test – Today, ground teams continued to execute a series of commands to complete direct drive testing on the redundant command string for SSRMS wrist joints 1, 2, and 3.  The purpose of these direct drive tests is to collect a set of data at regular intervals to trend mechanism health of the SSRMS joints.

