
Payloads
Standard Measures: The crew performed Flight Day 30 Saliva collections. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Plant Habitat-02: The crew performed plant thinning of the Plant Habitat-02 radishes that were initiated 10 days prior. Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Systems
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Oxygen (O2) Re-pressurization: The ground flight control team performed a re-pressurization of the ISS cabin atmosphere using O2 from a NORS tank. When the NORS tank is empty, it will be returned to ground where it will be inspected, recharged, and manifested on an upcoming resupply mission.
Emergency Air Response Reconfiguration: In preparation for five crew operations, the crew configured two new emergency Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs) with Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and installed ammonia (NH3) cartridges into emergency masks. The PBAs and NH3 emergency masks will be used by the crew should a toxic atmosphere event occur on the ISS.
Mini Research Module-2 (MRM-2) Airlock (A/L) Procedure Review: The crew reviewed the procedure for operating the MRM-2 A/L in preparation to support the upcoming Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #47. The MRM-2 module is located on the Russian segment and supports EVAs using Orlan-M suits.

