ISS On-Orbit Status 11/18/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 At day’s begin, FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR Wheelock continued his current 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), his 4<sup>th</sup> onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.  His Pro K run closes tonight at 6:05pm EST.    [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]
 
 FE-6 Walker started her own 4-day Pro K controlled diet &amp; diet logging session, the 5<sup>th</sup> for Shannon.
 
 For the next 24 hrs, Wheelock is also collecting his FD180 NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K urine samples for deposit in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Shannon’s last session follows tomorrow.     [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
 At wake-up, the three US crewmembers performed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift (therefore, for the next sleep shift sequence RST is scheduled twice daily from 11/1 through 5 days after the STS-133 crew lands). The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 Later, Douglas set up &amp; prepared the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), including MBS (Mixing Bag System), for his 6<sup>th</sup> and last session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max assessment, integrated with Thermolab.  After concluding without issues, Wheels downloaded the data, including Thermolab, to a PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop, powered down, cleaned up and left the hardware deployed and connected for Shannon’s final VO<sub>2</sub>max session tomorrow.       [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
 Also at wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin terminated his 11<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 FE-2 Skripochka had 2h 50m reserved for doing his 2<sup>nd</sup> onboard session of the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment, assisted by Yurchikhin who also took documentary photos.   Later, the Pilot-M &amp; Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled &amp; stowed away, data files were downloaded, and Oleg reported to TsUP on his run.     [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO &amp; RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]
 
 For his return to Earth on 11/25, FE-5 Yurchikhin completed his first preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test with the Russian Chibis suit by conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol.  FE-5 was supported in his 45-min session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 5:25am.     [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Yurchikhin’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.] 
 
 After the MO-4 session, Fyodor underwent his first Chibis ODNT exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill, with Alex as CMO.  For this 35-min exercise, supported by tagup with ground specialist via S-band, Fyodor wore the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.      [ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system after his long-term stay in zero-G.  The preparatory training consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -15, -20, -25, -30 mmHg for five min. each while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
 FE-6 Walker started out by performing the periodic camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 8 (done at Days 1, 3 &amp; 5 after initialization).  FE-3 Kelly took historical documentation photos of Shannon doing her BCAT-5 activities.  
 
 Afterwards, Kelly filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 FE-3 also serviced &amp; prepared his Actiwatch for a new round of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), performing data downloading and initializing the device, finally decabling &amp; stowing the hardware and powering the HRF PC1 off,
 
 Later, Scott had another ~30 min for the standard Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) onboard familiarization training, his 2<sup>nd</sup>, using a NIKON D2Xs digital still camera with 400mm &amp; 800mm lenses and taking practice shots of CEO (Crew Earth Observation) ground features from SM windows #6 or #8, with images having 40-50% overlap and about 20 images in each sequence.  Afterwards, Scott transferred the shots to an SSC (Station Support Computer) for subsequent downlink for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the next Shuttle (STS-133/Discovery/ULF5), to be launched NET 11/30.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Discovery, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.  As Scott reported, it is difficult to get pictures with the desired overlap using a camera set on Autofocus when the target is of low contrast, with water and clouds: it won’t focus.]
 
 Afterwards, Kelly took the monthly O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC laptop.     [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.]
 
 In the DC-1, FE-5 terminated the discharge process on the second 825M3 Orlan battery pack in the ZU-S recharge unit.
 
 After donning their Sokol flight suits, Wheelock, Yurchikhin &amp; Walker, due to return on next week (11/25, Thanksgiving Day), conducted the periodic 30-min. fit check of their Kazbek couches in the Soyuz TMA-19/23S spacecraft, the three contoured shock absorbing seats in the SA Descent Module.    [For the fit check, crewmembers remove their flightsuit cabin apparel and don Sokol KV-2 suit &amp; comm caps, get into in their seats and assess the degree of comfort and uniform body support provided by the seat liner.  Using a ruler, they then measure the gap between the top of the head and the top edge of the structure facing the head crown.  The results are reported to TsUP.  Kazbek-UM couches are designed to withstand g-loads during launch and orbital insertion as well as during reentry and brake-rocket-assisted landing.  Each seat has two positions: cocked (armed) and noncocked. In cocked position, they are raised to allow the shock absorbers to function during touchdown.  The fit check assures that the crewmembers, whose bodies gain in length during longer-term stay in zero-G, will still be adequately protected by the seat liners for their touchdown in Kazakhstan, either emergency or regular return.]
 
 In final close-out activities after the Orlan EVA-26, FE-1 Kaleri worked at the DC1 (Docking Compartment) nadir port to re-integrate the Progress M-08M 40P cargo ship, docked at the port, with the ISS by –
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>Conducting a leak check on the DC-1/40P vestibule,</li><li>Opening the DC-1/SU &amp; SU/39P hatches and installing the QD (quick disconnect) screw clamps (BZV, bystros`ёmnykh vintovykh zazhinov) of the docking &amp; internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) to rigidize the coupling (with Russian thrusters disabled from 5:45am-7:40am during the BZV installation for load alleviation),</li><li>Deactivating the cargo ship,</li><li>Installing the ventilation/heating air duct, and</li><li>Dismantling the docking mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the DC-1   [StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' cargo module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC-1].</li> </ul> 
 Kaleri later performed the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s sediment trap insert (VU) in the SM (Service Module).     [The Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water.]
 
 Skripochka wrapped up EVA-26 closeout activities, restoring communications and other systems in DC-1 and PkhO to their nominal configurations.
 
 In Node-3, Wheelock installed the four alignment guides at the T2/COLBERT treadmill for load protection during the Kabin removal &amp; CDRA troubleshooting.  With Scott Kelly, he then uninstalled the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) Kabin enclosure.  Later, after the CDRA activities, Kabin was reinstalled and the T2 alignment guides removed.     [The RS ASU toilet facility was available during the no-Kabin period.]
 
 Scott &amp; Shannon had ~1h 20m blocked out for assessment &amp; data gathering for the upcoming troubleshooting of the CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) on 11/19.    [Yesterday’s planned removal of the rear adsorbent Bed 201 of the Node-3 CDRA was unsuccessful.  The front Bed, 202, was taken out OK, but the CDRA frame could not be fully pulled out; it is stuck, preventing closing of the rack door.  Ground teams decided to return the front Bed on ULF5 and take more time in determining what needs to be done to get Bed 201 out.  Today’s activity by Scott &amp; Shannon consisted in collecting more data and video on the current rack configuration with which, it is hoped, engineers can develop a procedure for the crew to complete CDRA removal tomorrow.]
 
 FE-5 Yurchikhin &amp; FE-6 Walker joined up in the Soyuz TMA-19/23S for a 2-hr descent drill, a regular procedure for returning crewmembers.  The exercise uses a sophisticated computer simulation (Trenasher Spusk/”descent trainer”) on the RSK1 laptop, with a descent hand controller for reentries in manual mode (RUS) at various initial reentry conditions.      [For the onboard training (OBT) session, the crew assumed a reentry angle of -1.6 deg, then performed three runs each on the simulator for varying exoatmospheric deorbit misses (seconds), with time speed-up where desirable to press on.  The OBT included a tagup with TsUP specialists and a discussion of the Return Equipment List and Stowage.]
 
 FE-3 Kelly completed his 2<sup>nd</sup> onboard session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.      [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
 After yesterday’s regular WRS (Water Recovery System) sample analysis with the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, FE-3 today conducted the periodic TOCA calibration check.
 
 Later, Kelly performed the weekly checkup on the running payload SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and reported on KUBIK-6 incubator status &amp; temperature.       [Located in the EDR (European Drawer Rack), SPHINX studies how HUVEC (Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells) modify their behavior in microgravity, which could provide better knowledge of endothelial function and be useful for clinical applications.  Endothelial cells make up a thin layer lining the interior surface of blood vessels and forming an interface between the circulating blood in the hollow space (“lumen”) of the vessel and the rest of the vessel wall.  They line the entire circulatory system, from the heart to the smallest capillary, and reduce turbulence of the flow of blood, allowing the fluid to be pumped farther.]
 
 Scott also completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [Today’s uplinked new card (25-0001D) lists 124 CWCs (2,735.2L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (28 CWCs with 1170.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 712.7 L in 17 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 300.1 L in 7 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (85 CWCs with 1,538.7 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 7 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (20.2 L in 1 CWC from hose/pump flush &amp; 1 empty bag).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 In the SM, Alex Kaleri performed some more testing of the Russian “Istochnik-M” (source, spring) Telemetry Reception &amp; Recording (SPR TMI) system, checking it out by communicating with the attached Soyuz 23S.  SPR enables the ISS to receive telemetry from descending Soyuz spacecraft, particularly during tri-module separation, and record it on the Istochnik-M telemetry system.       [With the VHF ham radio turned off, the BR-9TsU telemetry system on the Soyuz TMA-19/23S was powered on, and the FSH3 spectrum analyzer was used to measure the input signal from the SM antenna.  The equipment, including the Istochnik TM station, power amplifiers, power supply, USB software sticks and cables, will capture Soyuz data through the amateur (ham) radio antenna, and transfer it to a laptop display where the crew and the ground will be able to immediately tell if a good separation of the three modules occurred during Soyuz 23S descent operations].
 
 Shannon Walker set up the equipment for the saliva collection of the INTEGRATED IMMUNE protocol scheduled for Wheels and herself first thing tomorrow morning.       [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI.  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]
 
 Afterwards, Shannon also readied the equipment for Wheels’ last (FD180) NUTRITION w/Repository generic blood draw tomorrow morning, with her assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  Required hardware includes the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in MELFI.     [The operational products for Blood &amp; Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
 Working in the US Airlock, Scott Kelly terminated the recharge of the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) batteries in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly), initiated yesterday, then “degassed” PWRs (Payload Water Reservoirs), i.e., manually removed gas bubbles (by self-centrifugation) to minimize the amount of air introduced into the EMU.      [The traditional procedure for “degassing” a container by first draining, then refilling it with a fully charged water CWC was replaced in 2004 by a rather ingenious new procedure developed and checked out on the KC-135 aircraft flying zero-G parabolas at JSC/Houston: Essentially, it involves the crewmember centrifuging the selected container by holding it away from the body and applying a slow rotation of ~15 rpm to him/herself, to separate air and water in the bag through centrifugal force, while simultaneously squeezing out the air by cinching down on bungee cords wrapped around the container.]
 
 At ~9:50am EST, Wheels, Shannon &amp; Scott joined for a PAO TV event, being interviewed by the “Rick and Bubba” syndicated radio show, Birmingham, AL, with Rick Burgess &amp; Bill “Bubba” Bussey.
 
 At ~2:05pm, the six crewmembers were scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director for ISS at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR FE-6), and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation):  ISS daylight-awake orbit tracks have progressed into a seasonal pattern in which they temporarily parallel the terminator.  Consequently most of the nadir views of CEO target areas fall below the criterion for illumination, with darkness to the left of track and adequate lighting right of track.  This condition is expected to persist for the next seven to ten days.  Just four targets for today had adequate light, but cloudy weather was expected to preclude their visibility.  CEO staffers will continue to look for dynamic events targets for which oblique views to right of track will be useful.  Also, Auroral activity in the Southern Hemisphere is a possibility for targeting in the coming days as twilight conditions fade for the crew’s southern nighttime passes.  However, today, in lieu of traditional targets, advantage was taken of the crew’s recently exhibited skills at nighttime photography of cities in oblique, short-lens views: Adelaide – Melbourne – Canberra – Sydney (the crew was advised to begin looking obliquely left of track at the uplinked time for the nighttime lights of the southern and southeastern coast of Australia for potential views of Adelaide, Melbourne, Canberra, and possibly Sydney), Christchurch – Wellington, New Zealand (looking obliquely left of track for the nighttime lights of the New Zealand for potential views of Christchurch and Wellington.  Weather was marginal, especially for South Island, and the Christchurch area should have been in view for 4 to 5 minutes), and Perth – Southwestern Australian Coast (looking obliquely left of track for the nighttime lights of the southwestern coast of Australia, especially the Perth area.  Area should have been in view for 5 to 6 minutes). 
 
 
