
Direct Current Switching Unit (DCSU) 1 Remote Bus Isolator (RBI) 1 Trip Status:  Friday evening and into the weekend, Flight Controllers worked to successfully restore power to the systems normally powered by the 1B channel.  In review of telemetry, the ground team revealed indications that the Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) 1B may not be able to regulate voltage, therefore should not be used to provide power to downstream equipment. The ground team is currently able to manage the power balance for the foreseeable future.   Teams continue to assess how to configure ISS for the best risk posture and are working SSU 1B recovery plans.
 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (Sally Ride EarthKAM):  Kornienko wrapped up a week-long imaging session of the Earth by shutting down the EarthKAM software and stowing the equipment.  An estimated 20,000 students from 247 schools in 28 countries are participating in EarthKAM.  Well over 10,000 images are expected to be captured and downlinked from the ISS.  Students are able to remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the Internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view these images of the Earth taken from the ISS.
 
Veggie Hardware Validation Test (Veg-01):  Lindgren installed a Veg-01 Root Mat and Plant Pillows in the Veggie facility and watered the root mat to start the VEG-01 Experiment.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown on the ISS for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.  The primary goal of Veg-01 testing will be to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie facility.  Lettuce was previously grown and harvested as part of Veg-01 testing.
 
Russian Joint Research (RJR) Microbiological Sampling:  Kornienko used the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) and Surface Sample Kit (SSK) to take surface and air samples to support a microbiological assessment of the ISS.  These activities are performed as part of a joint cooperative research program between NASA and the Russian Space Agency. The results of incubation and analysis of these samples will be used to identify ISS locations and surfaces prone to microbial contamination and will provide a scientific basis for decisions about future microbial monitoring on ISS and on future spacecraft used for human exploration.
 
Story Time:  On Saturday Yui and Lindgren read from the book “Weightless,” then discussed the subject of the book on camera and demonstrated the scientific principles involved.  Video recording of the activity will be downlinked to the ground and used for educational purposes.
 
Ocular Health:  Crewmembers Yui and Lindgren initiated their Return – 30 Day Ocular Health testing by completing vision and tonometry tests and taking blood pressure measurements.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risks of microgravity-induced visual impairment and increased intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Closeout Operations for Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #2:  Yui opened the JEM Airlock inner hatch, extended the slide table into the module, and removed the Handhold Exp Platform Adapter (used previously to attach the ExHAM hardware) from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Assembly (MPEP) mounted to the slide table.  He then returned the slide table to the JEM Airlock.  ExHAM#2 was installed on the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF) on Wednesday, November 11th.
 
Journals:  Kelly completed a Journals entry on Saturday and completed another one today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Sleep Log:  One Year Crewmembers Kelly and Kornienko completed Sleep Log entries after waking on Saturday and Sunday, and Kornienko made an additional entry this morning.  These entries support the Sleep ISS-12 experiment, which monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during the ongoing year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) and Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Fluid Jumper Quick Disconnect (QD) Maintenance:   As part of routine maintenance, Kelly replaced the PWD filter then cleaned and lubricated QDs using a QD Maintenance Kit.  He then performed corrective maintenance on 4 QDs for EXPRESS Rack 5 Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) fluid jumpers formerly used for the Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System (SpaceDRUMS) payload.
 
US Airlock Hardware Restow:  Following last week’s work to install the Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Airlock Interface Kit (AIK), Yui worked to restow hardware that was temporarily removed from the US Airlock.
 
Port Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning:  Kelly cleaned his Port CQ today. The activity included cleaning the intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and airflow sensors.
 

