
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew installed four cleaning syringes into the BFF after the Test Cassette printing process was complete and then removed the cassette. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand. 
PK-4 (Plasma Krystall-4): The crew performed 2nd run for part one of Commissioning #8 operations involving particle cloud trappings inside the PK-4 Chamber. Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4) is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. PK-4 investigates how micro-particles become highly charged in plasma and interact, leading to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas. 
Rodent Research-14 (RR-14): The crew performed RR-14 habitat 2 & 4 restocks and cleaned the Access Unit (AU). Rodent Research–14 will focus on Microgravity as a Disruptor Of The 12-hour Circatidal Clock (RR-14), uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior. 
Space Biofilms: The crew terminated the Group Activation Packs (GAPs) and then placed the GAPs into cold stowage. The Characterization of Biofilm Formation, Growth, and Gene Expression on Different Materials and Environmental Conditions in Microgravity (Space Biofilms) investigation characterizes the mass, thickness, structure, and associated gene expression of biofilms that form in space by analyzing different microbial species grown on different materials. Biofilm formation can cause equipment malfunction and human illnesses, and could be a serious problem on future long-term human space missions 
ACE-T-5 (Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-5): The crew performed the reconfiguration of the LMM AFC (Auxiliary Fluids Container) facility in preparation for the ACE-T5 experiment. Colloids are small particles suspended in a liquid. They can self-assemble into higher order structures of various forms. The Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-5 (ACE-T-5) investigation studies a new class of soft materials that contain two non-mixing liquids separated by a layer of colloids, called bi-continuous interfacially jammed emulsion gels, also known as Bijels. Microgravity experiments with bijels allow detailed examination of their stability and the forces at play during their processing without complications arising from gravity.
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA):  Today, the ISS crew continued their preparation for the AMS EVA by completing On board Training (OBT) Robotics training. The training supports the upcoming EVA to replace the Tracker Thermal Control System (TTCS) with an Upgraded Tracker Thermal Control System (UTTPS).  Over time, the TTCS cooling pumps have slowly degraded and have experienced a loss of coolant (liquid CO2).  The UTTPS will allow the AMS team to continue to collect data to on anti-helium nuclei and dark matter.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
MISSE-FF (Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility):  The ground robotics team completed the final Materials on the International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) MISSE Sample Carriers (MSCs) exchanges with the MISSE-FF.  The primary Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth. Testing in low-Earth orbit (LEO) allows the integrated testing of how materials react to exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), atomic oxygen (AO), ionizing radiation, ultrahigh vacuum (UHV), charged particles, thermal cycles, electromagnetic radiation, and micro-meteoroids in the LEO environment. 
Systems:
Lab P6 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Snorkel:  Engineers on the ground have developed the Snorkel hardware as part of Design Test Objective (DTO) to prevent water carryover from the Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) from entering into the Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA).  Following 48- hours of endoscope observation, the crew installed CDRA Snorkel in the LAB1P6 CCAA.  Next, ground teams will evaluate the performance of the Snorkel hardware.
Space Station Computer:  On GMT 312, ground controllers attempted to reload the Popcorn Service Pack (PSP) to SSC-16.  After several attempts to run the software script, the ground determined that the hard drive failed. Today, the ISS Crew performed a hard drive swap on SSC-16 (Zbook) to restore it back to nominal operations.

