
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Robotics Onboard Training:  Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) in support of the crew’s Cygnus Offset Grapple practice.  During the Off Set Grapple activity, the crew used the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) as the target to practice grapple approaches, maneuvering the SSRMS over the pin, and practiced pulling the trigger when they are in the grapple envelope.  Due to weather concerns, NG-10 Antares 230 Rocket is now scheduled to launch on Saturday, November 17 at 3:01AM CT.  Cygnus capture is planned for Monday, November 19 at 4:20AM CT.
Crew Interactive MObile companioN (Cimon):  The crew performed a successful checkout of the new Cimon artificial Intelligence free-flyer. Cimon was able to demonstrate free flying and absolute navigation in the Columbus Module.  The Pilot Study with Cimon is a technology demonstration project and an observational study that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an artificial intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crewmembers.
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Questionnaire. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST):  The crew opened up FROST-1 and removed condensation and some corrosion that was identified during the last use of the facility.  The FROST is a Stirling cooler that is able to maintain temperatures under -70ºC.
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG):  As part of the continuing integration activity for the Life Science Glovebox, the crew connected the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Supply Hose to the JPM1F5 Utility Interface Panel.  The Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Meteor:  The crew performed On-orbit training of the Meteor experiment by watching a video provided by the Meteor experiment team.  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. The study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.

