
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): The crew removed the memory card from the APM, transferred the data, and then reinstalled the card.  Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met.  APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): The crew completed a Robotic On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) research session.  The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight, and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Grip: The crew performed a makeup seated science 1 session and two supine science 3 sessions for the Grip investigation.  The makeup session was needed due to time constraints encountered during the original session on Wednesday.  The Grip experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
Kentucky Re-entry Probe Experiment (KREPE): The crew installed and activated the three KREPE experiment hardware units to their designated Cygnus locations.  Some difficulty was encountered with the activation of KREPE unit s/n 001, but the status of this unit will not be known until it begins transmitting data during re-entry.  KREPE demonstrates an affordable technology for re-entry experiments and provides flight data on Thermal Protection Systems (TPS) to help validate computational models. Design of an efficient TPS remains one of the most challenging aspects of space exploration. Three capsules placed in a Cygnus resupply vehicle deploy on its atmospheric reentry to collect and transmit thermal data from sensors at a variety of depths in their heat shields.
Plant Habitat-04 Troubleshooting:  Following the report of high humidity levels in the plant growth chamber, the crew checked on the system and found an air hose disconnected.  Once the hose was reconnected, the ground team was able to verify the humidity levels were trending back to an acceptable level.  Microgravity Growth of New Mexico Hatch Green Chile as a Technical Display of Advanced Plant Habitat’s Capabilities (Plant Habitat-04) demonstrates using the Advanced Plant Habitat (APH) by growing peppers in space for the first time. An excellent source of Vitamin C, peppers are more difficult to cultivate than many possible space crops because they take longer to germinate, grow, and develop fruit. The investigation includes microbial analysis to improve understanding of plant-microbe interactions in space and assessment of flavor and texture, which vary based on the growth environment and care such as amount of watering. 
Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment (SERFE): In a continuation of the SERFE experiment ops this week, the crew collected a water sample and performed microbial water testing.  SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crew members and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material.
Systems: 
Cygnus Departure Preparations: Today, the crew continued Cygnus departure preparations beginning with the completion of cargo closeout in the Cygnus vehicle and followed by Cygnus final egress and the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) rotation and closeout. The CBM connects the Cygnus vehicle to the US Orbital Segment (USOS) of the station. During the CPA install, the crew noted that the J5 connector was unexpectedly loose and that it may have been damaged. The crew proceeded with a CPA remove and replace prior to NG-16 unberth to mitigate risk of latch failure. Upon completion of CBM ops, the crew performed vestibule demating to close the Node 1 Nadir hatch. These activities are in preparation for robotic arm operations to unberth and release the NG-16 vehicle from ISS on Saturday, November 20th.
S-Band Antenna Support Assembly (SASA) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Prep: The crew continued to perform activities in preparation for the upcoming US EVA P1 SASA Remove & Replace (R&R) currently scheduled for November 30th. The crew installed lithium-ion batteries into the Battery Stowage Compartment and initiated charging of the EVA Li-Ion Batteries using EVA Battery Operations Terminal. (EBOT). The batteries were removed and stowed once charging was complete. Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training was completed in order to review operation of the EMU ECWS and practice EVA Cuff Checklist procedures. These procedures provide direction for the astronauts in the event the ECWS sends any alerts for EMU status. The SASA R&R EVA will replace the P1 SASA unit which was deemed hard-failed.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Filter Hose Inspection: Today, the crew performed an inspection of the Urine Filter Hose that may be causing Pump Separator faults. Yesterday, the crew reported the Check Pump Separator indicator light illuminated. The crew was able to clear the light, and the pump separator is now working nominally, but is considered as potentially degraded. Grounds teams will determine if the unit needs replacing.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) Inspections: Inspections of the Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) were performed for any signs of damage that would result in an air leak. The crew had previously reported an odor coming from the BPA hose. The hose connection was covered with gray tape by a crew member as a temporary mitigation. The objective of this inspection was to search for additional sources of an air leak.
Hatch Seal Inspection: A USOS Hatch Seal Inspection was performed for a subset of open hatches in Node 1. The crew cleaned and inspected the USOS Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surface, and Crank Handle Mechanism for FOD or damage. The inspections were conducted as part of nominal preventive maintenance.
JEM Stowage Reconfiguration: Today, preparation for the arrival of SpX-24 was performed in the JEM by consolidating stowage items for upcoming SpX-24 cargo. The objective was to collect and catalog items such as protective caps and bags in order to reduce unused volume inside Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs). Additional time is scheduled to continue this activity next week.

