
Payloads:
Nanoracks Module-9: Several photos were taken of the Nanoracks Module-9 hardware while in the Cupola area. NanoRacks Module-9 consists of multiple student experiments in individual Mixture Tubes all housed within a NanoRacks Module container.  Some experiments require crew interaction to remove clamps in order to mix materials to activate and/or deactivate the experiments. The experiments within the module are returned to the ground for analysis.
Systems:
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) Remove and Replace (R&R): Overnight the UPA failed and teams stood down from use. After reviewing the data, ground teams directed the crew to R&R the PCPA and were able to successfully recover UPA. The PCPA is the motor force of gasses in the UPA, pumping gas out of the distillation assembly (DA) and fluids control and pump assembly (FCPA) in order to reduce internal pressure.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring and Inspections: The crew configured tools for the upcoming ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) install EVAs for the 3A and 4A Solar Array Wing. Along with that, the crew inspected load alleviating strap on safety tethers, waist tethers, and soft strap on D-Ring extenders. The crew also inspected for damaged cords on mounted and unmounted retractable equipment tethers (RETs). These inspection activities are crucial for safety and necessary to complete prior to each series of EVAs.
Robotics Procedure Review: Today the crew reviewed all the 3A EVA procedures in preparation for 3A IROSA EVA Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) support. The reviewed document is intended to give an overview of the robotics operations for US EVA IROSA 3A and 4A. Also included are the steps to setup DOUG to monitor SSRMS motion during real-time operations. 
EVA Software Review in Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG):  The crew started and configured DOUG to receive and display real-time SSRMS joint angle telemetry from a Portable Computer System PCS Laptop and to start and configure DOUG without real-time SSRMS joint angle telemetry. 

