
Payloads
Avatar-X: In support of the Avatar-X experiment, the crew set up the video camera, opened the JEM aft window shutter, and removed the camera lens caps.  JEM Commercial (Avatar-X, or Kibo Avatar-X) demonstrates remote robot technology, Avatar-X, a 4K Camera, and new encoding method developed by ANA HOLDINGS INC. (All Nippon Airways). A user on Earth remotely controls a camera, installed near the window of the Japanese Experiment Module, to see the view from space.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L) Current Measurements: Using an oscilloscope and probe, the crew measured current in the SAIBO main power cable at various locations. These activities will help ensure CBEF-L is in a good configuration to support the Space Organogenesis science arriving on SpX-21. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as a full high definition video interface, ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment.
Drop Vibration: The crew performed the initial frequency scans to determine which frequencies are usable, and then performed two tests. Inertial Spreading with Vibration and Water Coalescence (Drop Vibration) examines the behavior of big liquid drops whose perimeter of contact, called the contact line, moves rapidly as the drops change shape either forced by vibration or freely by merger. These motions, fast and small on Earth, become slower and larger in microgravity and can be more closely observed. Such observations improve the currently limited understanding of contact lines, important in applications such as self-cleaning surfaces, water harvesting devices, anti-frost coatings, and the fabrication of semiconductors.
Material Science Research Rack (MSRR) / Materials Science Laboratory (MSL) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) Exchange: The crew was not able to locate the tool needed to remove the processed SCA and install the next SCA. The ground team is assessing alternate locations for the tool as well as the use of an alternate tool. MSL is currently performing ESA batch-2b science.  Batch-2b serves two projects investigating how different phases organize in a structure when metallic alloys are solidified. The project Metastable Solidification of Composites (METCOMP) studies the phase formed by the reaction of the remaining liquid phase with an already formed solid, to form a second solid phase on cooling. For this purpose, Bronze (Copper-Tin Alloys) of different compositions will be processed. The other project, Solidification along a Eutectic path in Ternary Alloys (SETA), looks at how two phases that form together organize into lamellar, or fiber, structures when cooling Aluminum (Copper-Silver Alloys). Both projects will provide benchmark samples that will enable to test numerical models that aim to predict these structures.
Turbine-Ceramic Manufacturing Module (T-CMM): The crew successfully completed the installation of the T-CMM insert into the T-CMM facility. As of the last report, the ground team was performing a checkout of the system and preparing for the experiment run. T-CMM demonstrates manufacture of single-piece turbine blade/disk combinations (blisks) in microgravity for commercial use. Manufacturing blisks in space could produce parts with lower mass, lower residual stress, and higher strength than those made on Earth due to greatly reduced sedimentation of the solution in microgravity.
Vection: The crew deployed the appropriate hardware and performed an experiment session. Vection is made up of three tasks that test how orientation perception, motion processing, and depth perception are affected by long duration 0g and return to 1g. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, as well as how it may adapt and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Systems
Inflight Maintenance (IFM) Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew completed a cleaning and inspection of the United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surfaces, and crank handle mechanisms for foreign object debris (FOD) or damage.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement: As part of system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through selected ventilation inlets and outlets.  The crew retook measurements in Node 1 due to low readings from yesterday’s measurements and then took measurements in Node 3.
Lithium Rechargeable Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Assembly (LREBA) Operations: The crew initiated battery maintenance (autocycle) operations for LREBAs 1004 and 1005 using both channels of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Lithium-Ion battery charger and the 28-volt Power Supply Assembly (PSA) Utility Power Outlet (UPO). The EMU Lithium-Ion battery charger is powered on 28-volt only in order to limit the maximum charging current delivered to the LREBAs. The crew also temporarily stowed LREBAs 1006 and 1007 for ease of access to autocycle once the first set of battery autocycles are completed.
Dragon Debrief Conference: The Crew-1 Dragon crew participated in a debrief conference which allowed the team to provide comments and discuss feedback concerning the Crew-1 mission to date.

