
Veg-04B: The crew performed a harvest for consumption and filled out the taste survey. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-0404A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space. 
MISSE-FF (Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility): The crew performed a retraction of the JEM Airlock table and removed the MISSE-MSCs (Material Sample Carriers) from the MISSE Transfer Tray. The MSCs were packed for return. The JEM-EF is a unique platform on the ISS that is located outside of the Japanese Experiment module (JEM), Kibo (Hope) and is continuously exposed to the space environment. Astronauts exchange payloads/payload facilities from the Kibo through the scientific airlock using the Kibo Remote Manipulator System. Payloads/payload facilities positioned on the exterior platform focus on Earth observation, as well as, communication, scientific, engineering and materials science experiments. 
NutrISS (Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station): The crew performed measurements on the skin as part of the NUTRISS study. The questionnaire was also completed. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein, intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss. 
PK-4 (Plasma Krystall-4): The crew performed the third set of runs for Commissioning #8 operations involving particle cloud trappings inside the PK-4 Chamber. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas. 
Ring Sheared Drop: The crew removed the existing syringe and test cell and swapped it with a new syringe and test cell in preparation for the next experiment run. The Ring Sheared Drop investigation uses microgravity to examine the formation and flow of amyloids in the absence of surface tension and other complications created by the solid walls of a container. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues, amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Space Biofilms: The crew terminated the Group Activation Packs (GAPs) and then placed the GAPs into cold stowage as part of Ops Session 3. The Characterization of Biofilm Formation, Growth, and Gene Expression on Different Materials and Environmental Conditions in Microgravity (Space Biofilms) investigation characterizes the mass, thickness, structure, and associated gene expression of biofilms that form in space by analyzing different microbial species grown on different materials. Biofilm formation can cause equipment malfunction and human illnesses, and could be a serious problem on future long-term human space missions.
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA):  Today, the ISS crew continued their preparation for AMS EVA #1 by completing On board Training (OBT) Robotics training. The training supports the upcoming EVA to replace the Tracker Thermal Control System (TTCS) with an Upgraded Tracker Thermal Control System (UTTPS).  Over time, the TTCS cooling pumps have slowly degraded and have experienced a loss of coolant (liquid CO2).  The UTTPS will allow the AMS team to continue to collect data to on anti-helium nuclei and dark matter.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
Systems:
Functional Cargo Block [sic] (FGB) Acoustic Monitor Survey Part 3: This FGB acoustic monitor survey will be used to assess the acoustic properties of the newly installed low-noise FGB Dust Collectors. Today, MCC Moscow (MCC-M) deactivated the FGB air circulation fans ЦВ1 & 2 and the Thermal Control System (TCS) Heat Exchanger fans 2, 3, and 5. Once the FGB air circulation fans were configured for the acoustic monitoring, the crew took a final set of measurements for the new FGB Dust Collectors. Following the measurements, MCC-M returned the FGB air circulation systems to a nominal configuration. 
Node 3 (N3) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning:  Today, the crew cleaned the Node 3 Aft Port IMV fan inlet flow straighteners, inlet silencer and outlet silencer.  This task required the crew to remove the NOD3A1-02 closeout panel to gain access to the Node 3 Aft Port IMV Fan and Silencer. Once accessed, the crew used a vacuum to remove dust and debris from the IMV Fan Inlet Flow Straighteners and the IMV Grille.  Once complete the crew re-installed the closeout panel and the ground team performed a nominal re-activation of the IMV.

