
H-II Transfer Vehicle 7 (HTV7) Status:  HTV7 performed a nominal deorbit, on Saturday November 10, concluding a very successful mission.  Final telemetry from HTV7 was received at 21:41 GMT (03:41 PM CT) at an altitude of ~104 km.  A nominal separation of the HTV Small Re-entry Capsule (HSRC) was conducted during this timeframe. The HSRC with JAXA Low Temperature Protein Crystal Growth (LT PCG) and Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF) samples inside the capsule were subsequently retrieved from the expected splashdown zone and are returning to Japan. The HSRC measures 840mm in diameter, 190kg in weight, and contains roughly 30 liters of pressurized volume for sample return.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4):  Over the weekend, a crewmember changed the configuration of the PK-4 chamber gas valve to the Neon setting.  A hard drive change out was also completed and hard drives s/n 035 and 036 were packed. Plasma Krystall-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas. 
Veggie:  Veggie-03 plants were checked for growth progression and watered as necessary. Photos were taken and placed on a flash card for downlink to the ground. The Vegetable Production System (Veggie) is a deployable plant growth unit capable of producing salad type crops to provide the crew with a palatable, nutritious, and safe source of fresh food and a tool to support relaxation and recreation. 
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Resize:  Today the crew resized EMUs 3003 and 3008 in preparation for upcoming EVAs. Each EMU contains exchangeable components allowing each astronaut to adjust EMU fit to their individual preference. EMU 3003 was resized for David Saint-Jacques and EMU 3008 was resized for Anne McClain. Both of these crewmembers are expected to arrive to the ISS via Soyuz 57S on December 3, 2018.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Replacement:  Today the crew performed routine maintenance in order to replace the ARED Cable Arm Ropes.  Once replaced, they applied proper tension and inspected the cable-pulley system bearings.  This maintenance is performed approximately every 146 days.

