
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Upgraded Tracker Thermal Pump System (UTTPS):  Today, the USOS crew transitioned the UTTPS from its launch configuration to its on-orbit configuration. To achieve this, the USOS crew transferred the UTTPS to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and bungeed it to the JPM1D6 (JEM Pressurized Module Deck 6) location. Once the UTTPS was temporarily mounted to the D6 location, the crew removed the UTTPS radiator cover, released the UTTPS launch restraints, and configured the AMS Alternate Fitting (AF) for EVA operations. Once completed, the crew repositioned the UTTPS in preparation for EVA installation on the AMS. 
CIR/ACME/s-Flames manifold bottle exchange: As a continuation of the s-Flame experiment, the crew performed a routine manifold bottle exchange.  In this activity, the crew replaced a used 30% O2/70% N2 bottle with a new one of the same composition, and replaced the used 45% CH4/55% N2 fuel bottle with a 100% H2 fuel bottle.  The purpose of s-Flame is to advance our ability to predict the structure and dynamics, including extinction and instabilities, of both soot-free and sooty flames. The results may contribute to the development of lean-burn engines for improved efficiency and reduced pollutant emissions here on Earth.  S-Flame is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME which is designed to study gaseous flames.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR)/Light Microscopy Module (LMM)/ACE-T5: The crew installed two bags of desiccant into the LMM to support the on-going ACE-T5 science.  The use of desiccant controls the humidity and allows the experiment to use low temperatures without the risk of condensation developing.  Colloids are small particles suspended in a liquid. They can self-assemble into higher order structures of various forms. The Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-5 (ACE-T-5) investigation studies a new class of soft materials that contain two non-mixing liquids separated by a layer of colloids, called bi-continuous interfacially jammed emulsion gels, also known as Bijels. Microgravity experiments with bijels allow detailed examination of their stability and the forces at play during their processing without complications arising from gravity.
ISS Experience: The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware, recorded an introduction, and the installation of the J-SSOD-12 satellite deployer system, which is planned to deploy its satellites tomorrow. Among other items, the crew discussed the general concept of an airlock, as well as the process for getting the J-SSOD system outside the ISS and maneuvered for deployment.  The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses. 
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-12 (J-SSOD – 12):  The crew performed the final two parts of the hardware installation in support of J-SSOD-12.  Ground checkout of the system indicated a cable configuration issue, which the crew found and subsequently resolved.  J-SSOD-12 is currently planned for a Wednesday deploy and will launch CubeSats AQT-D from Japan, RWASAT-1 from Rwanda, and NARSSCube-1 from Egypt. The J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite install cases with small satellites, is installed on the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crew members, it is passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS) Setup: The crew assembled the JEM WRS Water Processor and Controller.  The Demonstration JWRS will generate potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and waste water were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Nanoracks (NR) Zero-G oven installation:  The crew set up the NR GoPro camera and recorded the installation of the NR Zero-G oven.  Zero-G Oven examines heat transfer properties and the process of baking food in microgravity. It uses an oven designed specifically for use aboard the space station with a top temperature of 363.3° C. On future long-duration missions, fresh-baked food could have psychological and physiological benefits for crew members.
Rodent Research-14 (RR-14):  The crew performed a routine habitat restock and access unit cleaning in support of the ongoing RR-14 investigation.  Rodent Research–14 focuses on microgravity as a disruptor of the 12-hour circatidal clock.   The study uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Operations:  Today, the ISS crew performed the periodic EHS water sampling and Air Quality Monitoring (AQM) measurements.  First, the crew collected water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water.  The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These two tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption. Finally, the crew used the AQM to accurately measure target compounds important to the assessment of the onboard air quality.

