
49 Soyuz (49S) Launch: 49S launched successfully from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 2:20 pm CST this afternoon, with Peggy Whitson, Thomas Pesquet, and Oleg Novitskiy. Docking is scheduled for Saturday, November 19th at 4:01 pm CST. Once docked, the ISS crew complement will increase from 3 to 6 crewmembers. 
Human Research Facility (HRF) Software Upgrades: Today the crew initiated the final day of HRF software transitions to the HRF Rack 2 Personal Computer (PC).  The HRF Racks provide an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using the capabilities within the racks provide data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration space flight.
Story Time From Space: The crew recorded a video while reading the book I, Humanity by Jeffrey Bennett.  Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Cygnus Departure Preparations: Today the crew began configuring the Cygnus vehicle for departure. Today’s activities included relocating PCS computers to support Cygnus release, and egressing the Cygnus vehicle.  During the Cygnus egress procedure the crew installed the Air Revitalization System (ARS) sample line cap, derouted and stowed the Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) supply duct, removed handrails and radial port closeout, and closed the Cygnus hatch. The IMV supply duct was stowed in a mission-specific configuration to support Spacecraft Fire Experiment (SAFFIRE) operations after Cygnus unberthing.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA): The crew demated the connection between the Fluid Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) at Quick Disconnect (QD) 27 on the recently replaced Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA). This activity will allow teams to determine if the FCPA is the source of elevated conductivity in the UPA distillate. Troubleshooting involve disconnecting QD27 for two Advanced Recycle Filter Tank Assembly (ARFTA) concentration cycles to isolate the FCPA housing from the purge distillate. If conductivity significantly improves in this configuration, this could potentially implicate the FCPA. 

