
Human Research Facility (HRF) Software Upgrades: The crew initiated the first of three days of HRF software transitions.  Today’s upgrade were made to the HRF Rack 1 Personal Computer (PC).  The new software loads will support new experiments and on-board capabilities.  Although the load and checkout of PC1 was successful, ground teams discovered that several of the common software fixes were incompatible with the current Rack Interface Controller (RIC) software. Ground teams are looking into work-arounds for and do not expect any impacts to the crew or science. Over the next two days, the HRF Rack 2 PC and HRFPC3 will be updated as well, without expected impacts from the newly discovered issues.  The HRF Racks provide an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using the capabilities within the racks provide data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration space flight.
NanoRacks Science Box installation: The crew installed the NanoRacks Science Box into the EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 4, located in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). Currently, ground teams are troubleshooting a data connectivity issue.  The NanoRacks Science Box is an EXPRESS Rack locker payload, designed to operate in mission cycles and will be launched and returned on a regular basis. Each mission will host a number of customer payloads and a multitude of science objectives. The Science Box installed today houses five individual payloads, each with their own mission objective ranging from robotic arm proof of concepts to seedling microgravity exposure experiments. 
Node 3 to Node 1 Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV) Cone Screen Installation and Cleaning: Today the crew installed an IMV Cone Screen in the Node 1 to Node 3 vestibule to prevent FOD from entering the Node 3 Starboard Zenith IMV fan when operating in IMV Split Atmosphere Configuration. After the installation, the crew performed cleaning of the N1 to N3 IMV ducting.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Server 2 Deploy: Today, the crew replaced ISS-Server1 (T61p Laptop) with SSC Server-2 (ZBook), which will act as a backup in the event of a failure of the already-deployed SSC Server-1.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Stow:  Last night (GMT 319-320), the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the SPDM on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2). After MSS Software version, Mt Thor, uplink (completed on GMT 313), SPDM LEE capture of MBS PDGF2 was successfully performed for the first time using Gear Box Limping (GBL) feature, also called Active limping of SSRMS.  After completing the SPDM base change, SSRMS was maneuvered to park position in preparation of the re-grapple of Cygnus Wednesday (GMT 321), before Cygnus unberth and release Monday (GMT 326).

