
Payloads:
Cell Gravisensing-2 (CGS-2): Confocal Space Microscope sample observations were continued for the CGS-2 six-day experiment session. Recent spaceflight experiments have revealed that individual animal cells can feel the effects of gravity. However, how cells can sense gravity is largely unknown, thus understanding this mechanism emerges as one of the most important problems to be solved in space biology. The Elucidation of Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation challenges this problem through the analysis of the substrate-rigidity sensing capability of cells during spaceflight.
Earthshine from ISS: The experiment hardware was set up and photos were taken of the Moon. The Earthshine from ISS investigation involves the thorough analysis of photos taken of the Moon from the ISS at specific points in the lunar cycle to study changes in the Earth’s reflectance of light, or albedo. Activities consist of in-flight sessions comprised of photography of the Moon by the crew using a handheld digital camera and lens available aboard the ISS.
Melanized Microbes for Multiple Uses in Space (MELSP): Two Biological Research in Canisters (BRICs) Petri Dish Fixation Units (PDFUs) were placed in a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN) to incubate, and 2 other BRIC PDFUs were inserted into -80°C cold stowage. MELSP investigates how microgravity and cosmic radiation alter microbial melanin production and the role that melanin plays in fungal adaptation to the space environment. Melanin may help protect organisms in space conditions by providing physical shielding and by scavenging free radicals. Synthesis and production of melanin in microgravity could lead to new variants with novel properties and inspire development of new protective materials that are renewable and biodegradable.
NanoRacks Module-9 (NR Mod-9): The crew gained access to the NR Mod-9 experiment containers, opened a subset of the mixture tube clamps, and/or shook the tubes. Experiments in the tubes include biological samples, crystals, and materials testing. NR Mod-9 is a module containing a complement of Mixture Tubes. These Mixture Tubes each contain a separate experiment that can be activated and deactivated while in zero-G. Tubes are a low-cost, high-return science opportunity for students to send experiments to ISS and encompass a wide range of science/disciplines. Mixture Tubes are very popular with middle and high school science programs and have also been used by private company research, technical schools, and individual research.
NanoRacks External Platform (NREP): The crew removed External Module-14, also known as LEO-TM N-REP ISS Demonstration Advanced Sensor (LEONIDAS), from the NREP and packed it for return. The NREP provides a platform that provides communication, power, and operations to hosted payloads mounted on the outside of the ISS. LEONIDAS collects data on various backgrounds (local time of day, glint, clouds, etc.) to support development of a machine learning algorithm.
Virtual Reality for Exercise (VR for Exercise): Experiment batteries were charged in preparation for upcoming science activities. The VR for Exercise investigation focuses on the development of a VR environment for biking sessions aboard the ISS. The VR equipment is interfaced with the current exercise bicycle aboard the space station, known as the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).
Systems:
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) SpaceX-29 External Cargo Operations: The MSS was powered up and used to extract the Atmospheric Waves Experiment (AWE) payload from the SpX-29 Trunk. Once removed from the SpX-29 Trunk, the MSS then proceeded to stow it on the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP). Following that, the ground team performed a Mobile Transporter (MT) Pre-Translation Check Out and Survey.
Nanorack Airlock (NRAL) Operations: The crew cleared the Node 3 Port Endcone, opened the Node 3 Port hatch, cleared stowage from NRAL, and reconfigured the NRAL bungee jail. This was done in preparation to stow NREP in NRAL. The crew then removed Module-14 (LEONIDAS), reconfigured NREP, and stowed it in NRAL. Finally, the crew restowed additional items in the NRAL post NREP operations.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing.
HMS Venous Thromboembolism Scan: The crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
CWC-I (Iodinated Contingency Water Container) Operations: The crew initiated a CWC-I Fill to help
prepare a water bag for the operations next week. The CWC-I was filled by the WPA Waste Water tank via Process Line B. Immediately following the CWC-I Fill the crew performed a degas of two CWC-Is. The CWC-I Assembly is a water bag which has the ability to store up to 50 lbs of iodinated water.
