
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew installed a test print cassette (without Cells) into the BFF. Ground teams will then initiate a test run with the cassette sample. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand.
PK-4 (Plasma Krystall-4): The crew initiated a PK-4 session which involves catching cloud of particles with Neon Gas inside the PK-4 chamber using related software. Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4) is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. PK-4 investigates how micro-particles become highly charged in plasma and interact, leading to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas. 
Rodent Research-14 (RR-14): The crew restocked the Rodent Habitats with water and food bars and checked for leaks.  Rodent Research–14, Microgravity as a Disruptor Of The 12-hour Circatidal Clock (RR-14), uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior.
Space Biofilms: The crew activated Group Activation Packs (GAP) to initiate the Processing of the experiment and placed the GAPs into an incubator. The Characterization of Biofilm Formation, Growth, and Gene Expression on Different Materials and Environmental Conditions in Microgravity (Space Biofilms) investigation characterizes the mass, thickness, structure, and associated gene expression of biofilms that form in space by analyzing different microbial species grown on different materials. Biofilm formation can cause equipment malfunction and human illnesses, and could be a serious problem on future long-term human space missions
Systems:
Potable Water Dispenser:  Last week, ground teams and the crew performed troubleshooting on the electrical system of the Galley Rack and determined that the Rack Power Supply was causing a trip. The crew replaced the Rack Power Supply with an on-board spare.  Over the weekend, the crew relocated the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) from Express Rack 8 to the Galley Rack thereby, restoring the Galley Rack back to its nominal configuration.
Mobile Support System (MSS):  On GMT 314, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM)  from the park position to the Materials on ISS Experiment (MISSE) – Flight Facility (FF) located on the Express Logistics Carrier-2 (ELC-2). Ground robotic specialists are currently using the MSS to exchange MISSE Sample Containers (MSCs) with the MISSE-FF.  SPDM Arm 2 – loaded with the Robo Micro-Conical Tool 2 (RMCT 2) – executed the following sequence of maneuvers:

Extract the MISSE Sample Container-9 (MSC-9) from the MISSE-FF slot Z1
Insert the MSC-9 in the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) – held by the SPDM Arm 1 – slot T1
Extract the MSC-6 from the MTT slot T3
Insert the MSC-6 in the MISSE-FF slot Z1

Today, the MSS robotics team will complete the fourth and final day of the MSCs exchanges. Next, the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) will be installed on the JEM JOTI.
Cygnus Cargo Transfers:  The ISS crew continued with the NG-12 cargo transfers from the Cygnus vehicle to the ISS.

