ISS On-Orbit Status 11/14/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – light-duty day for the crew.
 
 FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which he had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 The two Russian flight engineers spent about three hours each on unloading &amp; transferring cargoes from the Progress M-MRM2 vehicle, based on IMS (Inventory Management System) information.
 
 Bob Thirsk concluded his fifth ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity.    [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 Nicole Stott set up the photographic equipment, broken out yesterday, for the moon photography required by the JAXA EPO (Educational Programs Operation) “ISS Moon Score” and afterwards conducted the shooting at two precise pre-set times.     [The purpose of this JAXA EPO is to create a musical score using moon photos taken from the “Kibo” JPM and DC1 windows at different times in the lunar cycle while the crew is floating naturally under microgravity environment.  Five of the seven sessions required for each different Moon age were taken by Greg Chamitoff and Koichi Wakata, the remainder by Tim Kopra.  At least 80 photos were necessary from DC-1 no. 2 window with the 400mm lens, and at least 80 photos of the Moon with atmospheric layer and/or JEF (JEM External Facility) are desirable from JEM window #F8 with the 200mm lens.  Nicole’s new shots were a special request from the Japanese artist.]
 
 Jeff Williams performed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC laptops.
 
 Later, Williams re-installed the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the FCF (Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility) in the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) which he had removed yesterday to allow PaRIS activation for ground-commanded FCF ops in micro-G. 
 
 At ~8:25am EST, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 As a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) contribution to research, Bob Thirsk set up the hardware for another BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment) experiment run, then worked through the protocol.      [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity, investigating the relative contributions of internal &amp; external cues to self-orientation during and after micro-G exposure.  BISE data collection must be performed at least one hour after any exercise.  The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration micro-G conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to micro-G and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts are being presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.  The Principal Investigator informed the crew recently: “We are excited to notice, even in this incomplete data set, some differences in the effect of vision on the perception of "up" compared to the before-flight trials, especially in the first few weeks after arrival.”]
 
 Roman Romanenko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 At ~10:45am &amp; 12:45pm EST, Maxim &amp; Roman conducted a PAO telephone interview with a correspondent of Sovetsky Sport Magazine.    [The most important selection tournament for 2010 soccer championship will take place on 11/14 at Luzhniki stadium in Moscow.  All-Russian team will play with Slovenian team.  Sovetsky Sport-Soccer magazine correspondent, Dmitry Tumanov, conducted two telephone conferences to give Maxim &amp; Roman soccer match progress report.  He will stay at TsUP for the entire duration of the match and be ready to comment on the game and answer all questions.]
 
 The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-4), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), T2 treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 Later, Frank De Winne transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 A 3-hr activity has been scheduled on Romanenko’s &amp; Suraev’s task list over the weekend to remove some material from the SM zenith hatch, bag it, and vacuum the remnants.  This yellow material, MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) and Aramid fabric, was discovered on opening the SM zenith hatch, lining the inside of the vestibule hatch.  It had been exposed to space since SM launch and the crew reported that it was crumbling when touched.  They donned goggles and face masks, cleaned the debris and took photos.
 
 
