
Marrow: Upon wakeup, a 52S crewmember conducted breath and ambient air sample collections for the Marrow investigation, which looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. 
NanoRacks-DreamUp Xtronaut Microbe (DreamXM) Operations: To initiate the NanoRacks DreamXM experiment, today a crewmember used cotton swabs to sample locations and inoculate several Petri Dishes to begin the DreamXM experiment.  Photos were taken of each Petri Dish as a baseline data point. Kits containing nearly identical materials were provided to students to perform a duplicate ground experiment. NanoRacks(DreamXM) teaches students the different microbial growths from a home-school setting and those in microgravity using near-identical flight kits flown and operated in the International Space Station (ISS). With access to an online portal, students swab away, paralleling the procedures of crew members and comparing results with online videos and datasets. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students. 
At Home in Space:  The crew took photographs to document ISS culture. This Canadian Space Agency investigation assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space also uses questionnaires to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth. 
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Camera Data Cable Swap: Today the crew exchanged data connections from the LMM Wide-field Camera to the LMM Confocal Camera and then relocated the connection of Fluids and Combustion Facility (FCF) Image Processor cable to troubleshoot the LMM wide-field camera data cable and connectors. The results of today’s troubleshooting activities are currently being assessed by the ground teams to determine if the Wide-field data cable should be replaced.  The Light Microscopy Module (LMM) is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the International Space Station (ISS). The LMM Wide field camera will be used for every payload in the FIR. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: The crew captured images of Seattle and the Northwest Pacific, fishing boats in the Gulf of Thailand, and the Nile Delta at night. The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Two Phase Flow Operations:  The crew conducted checkout activities for the Two Phase Flow experiment equipment. The Two Phase Flow investigation seeks to build a database on the heat transfer efficiency of liquids in space that can be used in the design of high-performance thermal management systems for future space platforms. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Hydraulic Components Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew performed preventive maintenance to R&R the urine valve block, urine lines, urine pressure sensors and WHC flush water tank empty pressure sensor.
Port Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ) Imagery:  The crew took imagery of the Port TRRJ from the Docking Compartment 1 (DC1) Window. During this task, the port radiator was rotated to specific angles in order to photograph specific sections of the radiator. 
Space Station Computer (SSC) Server Deploy:  Today the crew deployed and configured a ZBook Laptop to be used as a Server to replace the T61p Linux Server 1 (LS1) Laptop. 
ISS Server1 Rebuild:  Tonight during crew sleep, ground controllers will deploy a new build of the ISS Server1 Virtual Machine (VM).  In recent weeks, ISS Server1 has experienced numerous spontaneous lockups, causing disruptions to operations onboard.  The new build of Server1 has some modifications to it which are hoped to resolve the lockup issue.
On Board Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous Debrief: Today the USOS crew participated in a debrief with ground teams to cover questions and comments related to Cygnus capture and berthing. 
Spare Latching End Effector (LEE)/Utility Transfer Assembly (UTA) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) Swap:  This morning, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to remove the UTA from External Stowage Platform (ESP)-2 and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Work Site (WS)-4 to WS-7. They then removed the LEE and installed the UTA on ELC-1. Today, the MT was translated back to WS-4 from WS-7.  Later this evening, the LEE will be installed on ESP-2. These activities are in preparation for EVAs planned next January. 

