
Orbital Debris Shelter-In-Place: The ISS team has been notified of a satellite breakup that may create sufficient debris to pose a conjunction threat to the ISS. As part of the nominal procedure for ISS conjunctions, this morning the crew closed all hatches and both Dragon and Soyuz crews sheltered in their respective vehicles. Out of caution for crew safety, all radial hatches will remain closed until ground teams have determined there is no longer a conjunction threat to the ISS. This has impacted several of today’s activities.
Payloads:
Dose Distribution Inside the International Space Station – 3D (DOSIS-3D):  The crew installed DOSIS-3D passive detector packages (PDPs) in their locations in the Columbus module.  The PDPs for the US lab, Node 1, Node 3, Cupola, and Russian segment will need to be installed at a later time due to the ISS hatch closures in response to the conjunction.  New PDPs are installed, and old PDPs are returned to the ground at Increment transitions.  International Space Station crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. Dose Distribution Inside the International Space Station – 3D (DOSIS-3D) uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Thermo-Mini: The crew was allowed to open the Columbus hatch briefly to perform a few small tasks, including the Thermo-mini gather and setup.  In this activity the crew set up the Thermo Mini Headband for an upcoming 36h measurement.  The goal of the Thermo-Mini investigation is to gain insight into human thermoregulation during long-duration spaceflight. Thermo-Mini is a new device that measures the core body temperature by calculating the heat flux at the head or chest. Because of its non-invasiveness, it is possible for the astronauts to wear it for many hours a day.
Systems: 
ISS Crew Orientation and Adaptation: Today, the crew has allocated time scheduled as part of the first two weeks after an Earth-To-Orbit Vehicle (ETOV) has docked for the new ISS crew to adjust and adapt to living in space.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain and Fill: Today, the crew set up the drain of the installed Recycle Tank via the UPA Fill Drain Valve into a EDV using UTS, and configured to force fill the Recycle Tank using UTS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review: The crew reviewed the procedure products in preparation for US EVA P1 SASA R&R; questions will be addressed in an EVA Conference on Tuesday.

