
Diapason Experiment:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio set up and powered on the Diapason instrument for the final test run. This experiment studies nano-particle migration and capture achieved by very small thermal gradients. The particle size range allows the monitoring of combustion-generated pollution and the identification of atmospheric contaminants on-board ISS.
Ocular Health (OH) Measurements: FE-6 Wakata completed a series of activities in support of the OH payload, to satisfy his flight day 10 session. With FE-5 Mastracchio performing as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans and blood pressure measurements of Wakata were collected.  In-flight data collection was assisted by remote guidance from the ground to ensure proper positioning and data collection. Ocular ultrasound is used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Preparation for Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) Launches:  Hopkins performed preparations today for J-SSOD launches planned for next week. As part of his activity, he opened the JEM Airlock inner hatch, configured the slide table, and installed the J-SSOD onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP).
EXPRESS Rack (ER) -8 Updates:  FE-5 Mastracchio swapped the hard drive in the EXPRESS Rack-8 laptop, loaded EXPRESS Common Laptop Software 9.0, configured BIOS, and loaded Serial Network Flow Monitor software.
Elektron Status: Today, MCC-M and Crew performed additional troubleshooting steps to successfully recover the Russian oxygen generation system (Elektron).  The system was deactivated in preparation for RS EVA#36 this past Saturday. However, it had failed to restart on both micropumps the following day.  Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) within Node 3 has been operating nominally and able to support a full crew on its own.
4K Camera Configuration: Today, Wakata successfully setup and activated the JAXA 4K Camera Encoder. The activity was performed in preparation for JAXA’s 4K live PAO event scheduled for December 4th 2013.  During the PAO event, video images of the ISON Comet from Cupola will be captured using the 4K Ultra High Definition System.
Material Science Laboratory (MSL) Solidification and Quench Furnce (SQF) Sample Cartridge Exchange:  FE-5 Mastracchio was unable to install Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST)-2 test sample 10 in the MSL SQF because of an anomaly experienced while attempting to access the SQL chamber.  Ground teams are investigating the source of the anomaly.

