
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Maintenance:  This morning the crew took a return-to-ground sample of the OGS Recirculation Loop and restowed all tools and hardware the crew has used the last 2 days for the OGS maintenance.  The calibration settings for the OGA were updated based on performance this morning and the unit is now in Process, producing 2 kg of O2 per day. The current plan is to stay in this configuration overnight. Tomorrow, OGA will be put in a safe configuration to allow the crew to inspect the H2 ORU QD.
Glacier-1 Buffer Troubleshooting: On October 17, 2016 Glacier-1 internal memory disk buffer reached 99% and was not responding to clean up commands. Glacier-1 was unpowered to prevent the unit from reaching max capacity on the memory disk and risk file corruption. Today, the crew connected the Glacier into the EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack-2 Laptop Computer (ELC) for ground controllers to command through Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) and successfully cleared the internal memory disk buffer to below 70%. Glacier-1 is currently not in use and the next planned science operations are scheduled for SpX-10.
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Software Update: To overcome the non-functioning high rate data link nominally used to downlink data from the FSL, the crew connected the Multi-purpose Computer and Communications (MPCC) Laptop to the FSL via S-Video cable.  The crew was unsuccessful in updating the software on the MPCC laptop, possibly due to a file error.  Ground teams are evaluating the software files used during the update.  European Space Agency (ESA) plans to have the Simulation of Geophysical Fluid Flow Under Microgravity-2 (Geoflow-2) experiment’s video and data downlink through the Joint Station Local Area Network (JSL) by connecting it to the MPCC. The Geoflow-2 experiment, first run is scheduled for November 14. Geoflow-2 studies heat and fluid flow currents within the Earth’s mantle. Geoflow-2 aims to improve computational methods that scientists and engineers use to understand and predict the processes in the Earth’s mantle that lead to volcanic eruptions, plate tectonics and earthquakes.
Station Support Computer Server Load:  The crew deployed and configured the new SSC Server2 ZBook laptop to allow ground specialist to load required software.  The ground completed the SSC Server2 load.  This afternoon, the crew moved the Ethernet and power cables to SSC Server1 and prepared the laptop for ground teams to load that laptop.  SSC Server1 will host ISS-Server1 after the transition planned on Friday.  SSC Server1 and 2 are the first use of the new ZBook model laptop onboard ISS.
Orbital ATK (OA)-5 Cargo Operations: The crew performed 1.5 hours of Cygnus cargo transfer operations today. As of the last report the crew had completed 19.5 hours of cargo transfer with an estimated 7.5 hours remaining.
International Docking Adapter (IDA) Survey: The robotics team completed the dynamic surveys that simulate the view of an incoming docking vehicle as it approaches the recently installed IDA at Pressurized Mating Adapter 2 (PMA-2). These surveys used the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Camera Light Pan Tilt Assembly (CLPA) and pre-configured automatic trajectories to simulate vehicle motion. The approaches were performed in various lighting conditions.

