
ISS Reboost: On November 9th at 3:11 PM, the ISS performed a nominal reboost using the 85P Aft Progress R&D thrusters on SM Aft. This reboost was one of two planned reboosts in November to set up phasing conditions for the 86P 2-orbit rendezvous on December 1st. The burn lasted for 15 minutes 22 seconds with a delta-V of 1.43 m/s.
ISS Pre-determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM): On November 10th at 9:07 AM, the ISS performed a successful 0.5 m/s PDAM using the Aft Progress R&D thrusters. The purpose of this PDAM was to clear the risk of a conjunction with a piece of space debris. The ISS is back in the nominal configuration.
SpaceX-29 (SpX-29) Launch and Dock: The SpX-29 Dragon spacecraft successfully launched aboard a Falcon 9 rocket from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida on November 9th. Phasing burns occurred over the next day before the vehicle docked to ISS on November 11th at approximately 4:22 AM. The spacecraft delivered new science investigations, food, and hardware to the ISS.
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): In order to recover the use of the internal BFF internal camera system, the crew installed a camera switch which will bypass the USB camera hub. The crew also replaced the BFF glove bag, which is mounted to the front of the unit to provide containment for experiment operations. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Cell Gravisensing-2: Experiment samples were relocated from the incubator to the Confocal Space Microscope for observation. Recent spaceflight experiments have revealed that individual animal cells can feel the effects of gravity. However, how cells can sense gravity is largely unknown, thus understanding this mechanism emerges as one of the most important problems to be solved in space biology. Elucidation of Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation challenges this problem through the analysis of the substrate-rigidity sensing capability of cells during spaceflight.
Cerebral Aging: The experiment hardware was gathered and installed on the Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) to prepare for science activities. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space of cerebral organoids. Cerebral organoids are 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain at the molecular and cellular level. Also included for analysis in this investigation are markers of cell stress, metabolism, and ageing in healthy control samples, and cerebral organoids with mutations that lead to accelerated ageing. With this investigation, the research team seeks to establish and validate a pipeline that can be used for experiments with human cells in future long-duration spaceflight.
International Commercial Experiment Cubes (ICE Cubes): Cube #6 (Kirara 5) was installed in the ICE Cubes facility. Kirara is a 1-Unit (1U)-sized incubator, equipped with a temperature controller, which is used to allow protein crystallization to happen in microgravity under a well-maintained temperature. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstrations or educational objectives. During flight, users can monitor near real-time telemetry, and have tele-commanding capabilities from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, any institute, or any entity.
Melanized Microbes for Multiple Uses in Space (MELSP): Two MELSP Biological Research in Canisters (BRICs) were activated by the crew, and then inserted into a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN) to begin the experiment session. MELSP investigates how microgravity and cosmic radiation alter microbial melanin production and the role that melanin plays in fungal adaptation to the space environment. Melanin may help protect organisms in space conditions by providing physical shielding and by scavenging free radicals. Synthesis and production of melanin in microgravity could lead to new variants with novel properties and inspire development of new protective materials that are renewable and biodegradable.
Power Ascent Utility Locker-1 (PAUL1): Following the transfer of the PAUL1 over the weekend, teams were no longer able to see the expected telemetry. Today, troubleshooting was successfully performed to recover the telemetry, which is needed to support science activities. The PAUL is reconfigurable hardware that provides power to payloads during ascent to the space station. That makes it possible to control temperature and other conditions for investigations during their trip to the space station, expanding the possibilities for research aboard the orbiting laboratory.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Mission 86: Following a week of science operations with the 50mm and 85mm camera lenses, the experiment session was concluded, and the hardware was stowed. As of this report, more than 8400 students from 23 countries were participating, and 1,885 images had been downlinked to the ground. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The crew deployed the experiment hardware in the JEM. Exposure to space radiation can introduce hazards to crew member health and the function of equipment in space. Building on a previous space station study, SpaceTED aims to develop a device to collect data on crew radiation exposure and characterize the space radiation environment. This low-cost, portable device may be able to better assess radiation risks and help protect crew members and systems on long-term missions.
Systems:
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo from the SpX-29 vehicle to the ISS. SpX-29 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until December before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
WHC Manual Fill: As part of regularly scheduled preventive maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill. By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as a burp, the crew depressurized the flush water tank and the water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Maneuver for Orbiting Carbon Observatory-3 (OCO-3): The JEMRMS was activated and maneuvered to grapple the OCO-3 payload. Once grappled, the JEMRMS transferred OCO-3 from Exposed Facility Unit-3 (EFU-3) to EFU-4. This will set up for the ILLUMA-T transfer that will occur tomorrow.
