
Cell Mechanosensing-3:  Yui set up the Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Experiment Laptop Terminal (ELT) in preparation for Cell Mechanosensing-3 operations that will be performed after the arrival of investigation samples on the SpaceX-8 in January, 2016.  He exchanged the laptop hard drive and installed cables between the MSPR Small Experiment Area and the laptop.  Identification of gravity sensors in skeletal muscle cells during Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency’s (JAXA’s) Cell Mechanosensing investigation will support development of countermeasures against muscle atrophy, a significant health issue for humans in space. Scientists believe that the lack of mechanical stress from gravity causes tension fluctuations in the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle cells, which changes the expression of key proteins and genes and allows muscles to atrophy. Muscle cells from rats and kidney cells from African clawed frogs are tagged with fluorescent gene markers and attached to an extracellular matrix to study their performance under different tensions that simulate their use on earth.
 
Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Glycerol/Water Fill:  Due to a malfunction with the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) slide mechanism that allows the MSG work volume to be extended for crew access, Kononenko was unable to inject glycerol and water into the current OASIS sample under study.  While an investigation had begun to resolve the MSG problem, the OASIS ground experts decided to continue the investigation with the untreated OASIS sample.  OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
 
Sleep Log:  Kornienko recorded a Sleep Log entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Stow:  Kelly and Lindgren stowed tools which were used earlier this month as part of the P6 Return To Original Configuration (RTOC) EVA #33.
 
Soyuz 43 Imagery:  Yui configured a D4 camera in order to obtain high resolution imagery of the Soyuz 43 Descent Module, currently docked to Mini-Research Module (MRM)-1. The images will be downlinked to the ground and used for Micrometeoroid/Orbital Debris (MMOD) risk mitigation.
 
Lab Window Cleaning:  Lindgren cleaned the inboard surface of LAB Primary Pressure Pane.  The cleaning was performed in preparation for the METEOR Payload which will be installed in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) targeted to arrive early 2016 onboard SpaceX-9.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and performed a survey of the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) Starboard Solar Array Wing (SAW).  FGB SAW surveys will continue tomorrow.

