
Payloads:
Cell Gravisensing-2: The crew performed the first set of sample fixations for the ongoing experiment. Fixation refers to a group of techniques which are used to preserve various aspects of the samples for later analysis. Recent spaceflight experiments have revealed that individual animal cells can feel the effects of gravity. However, how cells can sense gravity is largely unknown, thus understanding this mechanism emerges as one of the most important problems to be solved in space biology. Elucidation of Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation challenges this problem through the analysis of the substrate-rigidity sensing capability of cells during spaceflight.
Cerebral Aging: Sample fixation were performed on science sample AX, and sampling and media exchange were performed on sample AY. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space of cerebral organoids. Cerebral organoids are 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain at the molecular and cellular level. Also included for analysis in this investigation are markers of cell stress, metabolism, and ageing in healthy control samples, and cerebral organoids with mutations that lead to accelerated ageing. With this investigation, the research team seeks to establish and validate a pipeline that can be used for experiments with human cells in future long-duration spaceflight.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The crew installed the refurbished Input Output Processor (IOP) into CIR, and the ground team subsequently powered up the rack nominally. This IOP was brought to the ground with a failed fan, repaired, and reflown on the Space-X-29 (SpX-29) vehicle. CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.  CIR currently has the Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE) insert installed, which enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations.
Integrated Laser Communications Relay Demonstration (LCRD) Low Earth Orbit User Modem and Amplifier Terminal (ILLUMA-T): A high-speed delay tolerant network laptop was deployed to support upcoming ILLUMA-T operations. ILLUMA-T will use laser communications to demonstrate faster data transfer to and from the ISS, providing for potentially faster discoveries and increased support for crew members. Rates as high as 1.24Gbps are possible with this communication system.
NanoRacks Module-9: The crew gained access to the NR Mod-9 experiment containers and opened a subset of the mixture tube clamps as per procedure. Experiments in the tubes include biological samples, crystals, and materials testing. NR Mod-9 is a module containing a complement of Mixture Tubes. These Mixture Tubes each contain a separate experiment that can be activated and deactivated while in zero-G. Tubes are a low-cost, high-return science opportunity for students to send experiments to ISS and encompass a wide range of science/disciplines. Mixture Tubes are very popular with middle and high school science programs and have also been used by private company research, technical schools, and individual research.
NanoRacks Module-104: The Module-104 experiment hardware functionality was demonstrated by mixing the food tubes and transferring contents to a flask in microgravity. Module-104 uses Duckweed to study the viability of a two-part food product for future crew members. Both the packaging and the edible liquid matrix are part of the investigation, but nothing is actually consumed by the crew in this version of the experiment.
Pharmaceutical In-space Laboratory – 01 (PIL-01): The experiment cassette was installed in the ADvanced Space Experiment Processor-2 (ADSEP-2) facility. ADSEP-PIL-01 studies how microgravity affects the production of various biocrystals used to treat cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and pain. Results may help improve the purity and physical properties of these biocrystals.
Systems:
SpX-29 Cargo Dragon Trunk Survey: Late yesterday, the ground team used the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) to perform a survey of the SpX-29 Cargo Dragon Trunk. This was done in preparation for the upcoming SpX-29 external cargo transfers for the ILLUMA-T and AWE payloads.
Russian EDV Inspection: The crew inspected a standalone EDV for any signs of a leak, air intrusion, or off-nominal PTU quality. Before doing so, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) was donned by the crew and video recording was set up to allow the ground to follow along. The EDVs are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. They are also used to store water and urine for disposal on the Progress.
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo from the SpX-29 vehicle to the ISS. SpX-29 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until December before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
