
35 Soyuz (35S) Undock and Landing:  Following the change of command ceremony, Soyuz 35S undocked from the Service Module Aft Port bringing Commander (CDR) Yurchikhin, Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg back to earth. The undock command, which initiated the opening of the Soyuz vehicle docking hooks was issued at 5:25pm CST with physical separation occurring a minute and a half later.  The Soyuz deorbit burn started at 7:55pm CST and Search and Rescue (SAR) forces established voice communication with the crew and obtained visual acquisition of Soyuz on parachutes at 8:38pm (CST). Soyuz 35S landing occurred at 8:49pm (CST) in the nominal region.  The ISS crew complement has returned to six.
Reaction Self Test Investigation:  FE-9 Wakata completed a session of the Reaction Self Test which includes pre-test questions, a reaction time test, and performance feedback.  This activity is performed multiple times during the increment.  The Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test (Reaction Self Test) is a portable 5-minute reaction time task that will aid crewmembers in objectively identifying when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).  Reaction Self Test also evaluates the extent to which performance feedback (via a graphical interface) is perceived by ISS crewmembers as a useful tool for assessing performance capability.
Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (EarthKAM):  FE-3 Hopkins set up the EarthKAM components in Node 2 and activated the camera and software for a week-long imaging session. EarthKAM is an education program that enables thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM ground team then posts these photographs on the Internet for the public and participating classrooms around the world to view.
Radiation Environment Monitor (REM) Investigation:  Wakata installed REMs on two Station Support Computers (SSCs).  REM is a demonstration of the Medipix technology evolved from work at the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Geneva, Switzerland. The device is expected to provide the basis for the first generation of operational active personal space radiation dosimeters.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions (InSPACE)-3 Experiment:  Hopkins conducted the 8th of the new series of 12 InSPACE-3 runs. This series uses the same test parameter settings as previous series but with an increase in the run duration from 2 hours to 6 hours. This will allow investigation of a continued chain-like aggregation phenomena observed towards the end of some of the previous shorter duration runs.  InSPACE-3 studies the behavior of magnetic colloidal fluids which transition to a solid-like state with the formation and cross-linking of microstructures in the presence of a magnetic field. This technology can be used for vibration damping systems and to improve the design of structures.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo Test:  FE-8 Mastracchio and Wakata set up cameras and the Work Area for this test, then Mastracchio performed the test run. The Vertigo investigation uses the SPHERES facility free-flying satellites to demonstrate and test, in a complex environment, enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. Vertigo hardware and software enables multiple SPHERES to construct three dimensional (3D) models of a target object and then explore how well the SPHERES free-flyers perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.

