
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD)-2 Launches:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata opened the JEM Airlock outer hatch and extended the slide table with the SSOD out to the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF).  He released the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA) Attachment Mechanism (SAM) Latching Arm to prepare for the SSOD transfer from the slide table to the JEMRMS.  Three cube satellites were then deployed nominally from one of the two cases attached to the SSOD on the JEMRMS.  The cubesat in the second case will be deployed tomorrow.  The first J-SSOD demonstration was successfully completed on October 4, 2012.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Leak Test:  FE-3 Hopkins performed a series of tests on EMU 3011 as part an ongoing effort for returning the suit back to service. The tests included leak checks, comm checks, suit performance checkouts followed by wiping EMU seals and pressurization of the suit.  EMU 3011 had experienced a problem earlier this year during USOS EVA #23, when water leaked into Parmitano’s helmet.  Since then, the ISS Crew has replaced the Fan Pump Separator (FPS) in order to resolve the problem.
Microbiome Investigation: Today, FE-5 Mastracchio performed his Flight Day 7 session of the Microbiome investigation. This included taking surface samples in the ISS, performing body sample collections, inserting samples into cold stowage and answering survey questions.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the ISS, periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken. As part of this study, the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments, and the related human health risk, will be assessed.
Inter Orbit Communication System (ICS) Data Multiplexer Installation: Wakata installed the ICS Data Multiplexer within the JEM today. The Multiplexor had previously failed and was returned to the ground for repair via the SpaceX Demo Flight in May 2012.  The repaired unit made its return to ISS in August of this year via HTV-4.  ICS provides an independent intercommunications network between the JEM and the Tsukuba Space Center, utilizing JAXA’s Data Relay Test Satellite (DRTS).

