
Payloads
GRIP: The crew performed an external Hard drive installation to the SSC-6 laptop in preparation for upcoming GRIP operations. The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
EarthKAM (Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools): The crew swapped out the EarthKam camera lens to an 85mm lens configuration in support of the Mission 72 objections at the Node 2 window. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Standard Measures: The crew performed (day three of four) Flight Day 30 Saliva collections and performed the Fecal collection setup in support of the Standard Measures study. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Plant Habitat-02: The crew reviewed procedures for the upcoming Radish leaf harvest operations. Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
EML Batch 2 (Electromagnetic Levitator): The crew performed a programming cable installation to allow file transfers between the Mass Memory Unit and the ground. The Batch 2 experiments aim to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is of substantial importance to processes in producing materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys.
Systems 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R):  Today, the crew removed and replaced the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter.  After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational.
Crew-1 Preparations: The crew performed two activities in preparation for Crew-1 arrival. The crew relocated and deployed a laptop (SSC) which will be used during Crew-1 approach and docking. The crew will return to reconfigure the laptop at a later date. The crew also reconfigured stowage in the Node 2 Forward Endcone. The Crew-1 vehicle will dock to Pressurized Mating Adapter 2 (PMA-2) which is located at Node 2 Forward.
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Oxygen (O2) Re-pressurization: The ground flight control team performed a re-pressurization of the ISS cabin atmosphere using O2 from a NORS tank. When the NORS tank is empty, it will be returned to ground where it will be inspected, recharged, and manifested on an upcoming resupply mission.
ISS Reboost: Today the ISS performed a reboost using the SM Aft 75P R&D thrusters. This reboost puts the ISS in a good trajectory for the arrival of Russian visiting vehicles next year.

