
AnisoTubule Experiment: Today, Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata began activities to support JAXA’s Aniso Tubule experiment.  He watered seeds in a sample chamber and then stowed the chamber in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for a five-day preparation for sprouting, simulating the winter season for plants.  The Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
Cardio Ox Investigation:  Wakata prepared Ultrasound 2, attached Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes, and prepared for ultrasound scanning by marking arteries with assistance from the operator, FE-3 Hopkins.  Wakata then performed ultrasound scans on himself with assistance from Hopkins and remote guidance from ground team.  Future human space travel missions may increase the risk of oxidative and inflammatory damage primarily from radiation, but also from psychological stress, reduced physical activity, diminished nutritional standards and exposure to elevated oxygen levels during extravehicular activity. There is evidence that higher levels of oxidative and inflammatory stress and associated damage to blood vessels contribute to cardiovascular disease. The purpose of this study is to measure levels of biomarkers in blood and urine that are affected by oxidative and inflammatory stress before, during, and after long duration spaceflight and relate them to the risk of developing atherosclerosis.
JAXA 4K Camera Checkout:  Wakata set up and performed a checkout of JAXA’s 4K camera in the Cupola.   The activity was performed in preparation for JAXA’s 4K live PAO event scheduled for December 4th 2013. During the PAO event, video images of the ISON Comet from Cupola will be captured using the 4K Ultra High Definition System.  The ISON Comet originates from the Oort Cloud region of our solar system and is now travelling toward the sun. The comet will reach its closest approach to the sun on November 28th. If it comes around the sun without breaking up, the comet will be visible in the Northern Hemisphere with the naked eye.
Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Data Gather: FE-5 Mastracchio installed the TAK onto the PGT and recorded output values for ground analysis.  The activity is performed once every six months.
Crew Quarters 9 Volt Battery Change Out: Today, Hopkins replaced the 9V batteries within the Electrical Panel in all 4 Crew Quarters. The batteries provide a backup power source for the C&W alarm speakers and the egress LEDs. This activity is performed once every 12 months.

