
MObile companion (Cimon):  A crewmember reviewed a summary for this week’s operations and also retrieved and charged the two Cimon batteries.  Cimon is a technology demonstration project and an observational study that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an artificial intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crewmembers.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics:  A crewmember removed Plate 1 Biophysics sample from the Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI)-1 and installed it into the LMM in preparation for Biophysics-06 experiment. Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work.  Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. LMM Biophysics 4 examines the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity.
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG):  Today the crew removed the Gas Trap Fill Fixture from the Node-1 location in preparation for attachment to the LSG Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) return line planned for tomorrow. Tomorrow’s activity will start the removal of any trapped air in the system. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus On-board Training:  Today, the crew performed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. NG-10 is currently on track to launch on Novemeber15 and berth to ISS on November 18.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday evening, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and performed Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latch End Effector (LEE) checkouts on both strings. Brakes and joints diagnostics were also performed on both strings. All of the NG-10 pre-launch MSS checkouts were successful. They then maneuvered SSRMS to the Offset Grapple start positon where the LEE snare cables survey was performed to find that the snares were in a good configuration. MSS is now in position for the crew practice session scheduled for November 15, 2018.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R):  The crew removed and replaced the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter. After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational.

