
Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument (SODI) Experiment Preparation:  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins reviewed SODI setup procedures, activated the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) facility and set up the SODI core hardware and experiment-specific hardware in the MSG Work Volume.  These activities allow performance of an optical checkout prior to the installation of the SODI Diffusion Coefficient in Mixtures (DCMix) Cell Array after its arrival on the 53 Progress (53P) vehicle.  The main purpose of SODI DCMix is the measurement of diffusion coefficients of selected ternary mixtures, taking advantage of the reduced gravity environment available on board the ISS.
Ocular Health (OH) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Test and Fundoscope Examination:  FE-5 Mastracchio, performing as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), completed an OCT test of FE-6 Wakata Flight Day 10 OH session.  Wakata later applied drops in both of his eyes to dilate them.  Mastracchio conducted a Fundoscope eye examination with remote guidance from ground experts. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Reversible Figures Experiment:  Hopkins completed his third session, and Wakata completed his first session, of Reversible Figures in free floating conditions. Each subject performs this activity at least four times during their stay on board.  European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) Reversible Figures experiment investigates whether the perception of ambiguous perspective-reversible figures that can normally be seen to change in perspective or orientation is affected by microgravity.  A comparison will be made of the perceived reversals during visualization of the figures in crewmembers that occurs before, during and after long-term exposure to microgravity.   It is expected that measurable, perceptual differences will provide insight into human cognitive-perception dynamics in the microgravity environment of the ISS and in normal gravity on Earth.
On-Board Training (OBT) Review: The 37 Soyuz (37S) crew reviewed OBTs associated with emergency mask equipment. Using training hardware, the 37S crew practiced emergency mask don and purge techniques. Then later in the day, ISS Commander (CDR) Kotov joined the 37S crew to review the emergency equipment onboard the ISS. These OBTs are a nominal training exercises that are conducted by new ISS crew members.
Conjunction with Object 28862 (CZ-4B Debris) Status: Ground teams received updated tracking data for a possible conjunction with Object 28862 (CZ-4B Debris). The conjunction is no longer a concern and no corrective actions are needed. Object 28862 (CZ-4B Debris) is a rocket body from a Chinese “Earth Resources” satellite (ZIYUAN-2 3) launched on a Long March 4B rocket on November 6, 2004 from Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center in the northern Shanxi province.

