
US Segment Crew Handover: Hopkins continued a handover with newly arrived crewmembers Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio and FE-6 Wakata. Topics included recommendations for on-orbit practices, lessons learned, and familiarization of ISS Systems and Payloads within each USOS module.
Ocular Health (OH):  As part of his Flight Day 10 session, Wakata completed his vision test and with assistance from FE-3 Hopkins as an operator, his blood pressure was measured.  Hopkins, performing as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), next practiced using the Tonometer on an eye simulator and then conducted a Tonometry examination of Wakata’s eyes with support from Ground personnel. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Replacement of Igniter Tips for the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA)  Flame Extinguishment  (FLEX) Experiment: Today FE-3 Hopkins replaced MDCA igniter tips with tips brought up on the 37 Soyuz (37S) vehicle.  This activity is in support of the FLEX experiment, which uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. Observations are made of the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will provide insight into how fires behave in space and will provide important information that may be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Elektron Status: In preparation for Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #36 this past weekend, the oxygen generation system (Elektron) in the Russian Segment was turned off. On Sunday, the Elektron failed to restart on both the primary and back up micropumps. The crew attempted to restart the Elektron again today, but both micropumps failed again. Ground teams asked the crew to stand down from further Elektron operations while they assess future troubleshooting.  Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) within Node 3 is currently operating nominally and is able to support a full crew on its own.
Conjunction with Object 28862 (CZ-4B Debris) Status: Ground teams are tracking a possible conjunction with Object 28862 (CZ-4B Debris). The conjunction is of Medium concern due to the relatively low radial miss distance and limited data. If a PDAM is required, downstream visiting vehicle traffic will not be impacted. Ground teams are collecting additional tracking data. Object 28862 (CZ-4B Debris) is a rocket body from a Chinese “Earth Resources” satellite (ZIYUAN-2 3) launched on a Long March 4B rocket on November 6, 2004 from Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center in the northern Shanxi province.

