
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N) Retrieval: Today a USOS crewmember retrieved all 8 of the Space Bubble Detectors that were deployed last week around the International Space Station (ISS) for the RaDI-N experiment, and handed them to the Russian crewmember to be processed in the Bubble Reader. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation measures neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Telescience Resource Kit (TReK) Laptop Setup: In support of the Space Commerce Conference and Exposition, the crew setup the TReK Demonstration laptop and relocated the high definition camcorder to allow the conference attendees to view their images real-time from the Trek laptop on the ISS. TReK is a suite of software applications and libraries that can be used to monitor and control assets in space or on the ground.  This week, the Space Commerce Conference and Exposition will present a three day event engineered to highlight the intersection points between terrestrial industries and the aerospace community. 
Orbital ATK (OA)-5 Cargo Operations:  The crew performed 3.5 hours of Cygnus cargo transfer operations today, thus completing all of the Cygnus cargo operations.  Following today’s transfer operations the crew participated in a conference with ground specialists. Ground teams are assessing photos of the vehicle to verify the final configuration.
Emergency Book Updates:  The crew made pen and ink (redline) edits into the six hard copy Emergency (EMER)-1a books. These changes reflect new operations following the ISS Server1 transition to Zbook that was completed last week.  The EMER-1a books contain crew response to Depress, Fire and the equipment to be retrieved prior to isolating a module. 
Station Support Computer (SSC) Guacamole Service Pack Transition: Today, ground controllers deployed the Guacamole service pack on the SSC client laptops.  This service pack provides software updates and additional functionality, including applications for the European Space Agency (ESA) EveryWear payload. The EveryWear application allows for connecting remote “wearable” sensors, allowing for physiology data collection for both science research and medical purposes. 

