
53P KURS-NA Checkout: 53P performed a rendezvous demo/flyby today.  This demonstration was used to check out the new KURS-NA System.  During today’s flyby, the closest point of approach was 1.6 km. The KURS-NA System is in development for next-generation Soyuz-MS/Progress-MS to replace the KURS-A antennas since many of the components are no longer produced. Preliminary results for the checkout appear nominal.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1 Sample Setup: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio started the second run for the BCAT-C1 Sample 3.  This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in a liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions have the unique property that the particles phase separate and the particles self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light. Photographing these samples in microgravity allows the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity.
Sprint VO2 Experiment: FE-6 Wakata performed the first of his six planned Sprint VO2 sessions.  The Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. The investigator’s long range goal is to develop and optimize exercise countermeasures for use in long-duration spaceflights.
Cosmo Shoot Checkout:  Wakata continued checkouts in preparation for the Cosmo Shoot filming of the International Scientific Optical Network (ISON) comet as part of a live public affairs event scheduled for December 4,2013.  He worked with ground experts as he configured and checked out the HDTV video camera, microphone and laptop. Video downlink was successful utilizing NASA’s HD Encoder.  NASA’s fleet of solar observatories will observe ISON as it passes over the sun’s equator on the same side of the sun as a group of active sunspots was recently clustered. This group includes STEREO-A ,STEREO-B, the Solar Dynamics Observatory, and the Solar and Heliophysics Observatory (SOHO), which NASA operates along with European Space Agency (ESA).
Biological Experiment Laboratory (Biolab) Commissioning Day 2:  Mastracchio performed the second of four days of crew activities to support commissioning of ESA’s Biolab facility in the Columbus module.  He installed a Triplelux Experiment Container (EC) and a Dummy Mass and Viability Test EC on the Biolab rotors.  BioLab is a multiuser research facility used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab will allow scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
NanoRacks BioRack Checkout: FE-3 Hopkins verified connectivity of the NanoRacks BioRack and then installed the BioRack centrifuge.  He was not able to power on the centrifuge for the checkout.  Ground teams are investigating the anomaly.  These activities were being performed to prepare for processing of BioRack samples arriving on SpaceX-3
Biological Rhythms 48 Hour Experiment: Wakata configured and donned an Actiwatch, attached electrodes to his chest, and will wear the Digital Walk Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) for JAXA’s 48 hour Biological Rhythms experiment.  This study examines the circadian variation of astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight. The research is expected to provide insights into changes in crewmember’s autonomic functions before, during, and after long-duration space flight and may be used to improve health care technology for future ISS crewmembers.
Sabatier Check Valve Installation: Hopkins installed a CO2 Check Valve in order to help preserve the life of the Sabatier compressor.  The new check valve will prevent back pressure from entering the compressor. As part of this activity, Hopkins also performed a Sabatier accumulator purge to expel water that was in the system.  Sabatier had been exhibiting signs of water vapor being carried over from CDRA.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS)/Quick Don Mask Assembly (QDMA) Inspection: Mastracchio performed a PEPS and QDMA Inspection.  The Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFE) and Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBA) tank quantities were also checked to ensure they were within nominal limits.

