
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Operations for Closeout of Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #2: Yui opened the inner JEM Airlock hatch and then, with assistance from Lindgren, removed the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) from the Small Fine Arm (SFA) Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM) on the Slide Table and then removed the SAM from the Slide Table.  ExHAM#2 was installed on the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF) on Wednesday, November 11th.
 
Biological Rhythms 48 Hours: Lindgren configured an Actiwatch and attached it to his wrist.  In 48 hours he will don the Holter Electrocardiogram.  Biological Rhythms 48 Hours studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While the ISS schedule follows Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), it remains unknown whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this, astronauts wear an Actiwatch for 96 hours and a Holter electrocardiograph for 48 hours.
 
Russian Pilot-T Experiment: Kelly performed a session for the Russian experiment Pilot-T today. The goal of Pilot-T is to improve methods and develop equipment to assess and predict crewmember performance reliability during the execution of complex operator tasks (such as piloting a space vehicle or controlling transport and robotic equipment on the surface of a spacecraft) during various stages of long-term spaceflight.
 
Radiation Neutron Field Study (Radi-N): Lindgren retrieved the eight bubble detectors from their deployed locations in the ISS and handed them over to a Russian crewmember.  The objective of RADI-N is to characterize the neutron environment of the ISS.  The data produced is used to define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and support development of advanced protective measures for future space flight.
 
Cardio Ox:  Kelly, with assistance from Lindgren, collected blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of his carotid and brachial arteries for this Flight Day 240 Cardio Ox session.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans are obtained at the same time points and through 5 years after landing.
 
EXPRESS (EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station) Rack 2 Laptop Software Load: Yui supported the ongoing software updates to ISS EXPRESS Rack laptops by copying a software load to the EXPRESS Rack 2 laptop.
 
Space Headaches: Yui and Lindgren completed their weekly Space Headaches questionnaires today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Latching End Effector B (LEE-B) Survey:  Overnight, (GMT 323), the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2).  They then walked the SSRMS off MBS PDGF1 onto the Node 2 PDGF and maneuvered the SSRMS to position LEE-B near the Cupola ready for ISS Crew photography of LEE-B.  Today Yui took imagery of the LEE-B to inspect the snares and latches, and imagery of the lubrication as a follow-up to the LEE lubrication activity from US EVA #32.
 
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPs) Audit:  Lindgren conducted an audit of the PEPs hardware to verify the emergency response hardware is in the expected location and is free of damage.  He audited Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), and Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) including Quick Don mask Assemblies (QDMAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks.  This audit is performed once per year.
 
 

