
Ocular Health (OH) Measurements: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins completed a series of activities in support of his flight day 60 session of Ocular Health, the 3rd of his 6 planned sessions. FE-6 Wakata performed the vision, tonometry and blood pressure measurements tests, with ground experts providing remote support, on Hopkins.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular, and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Second Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD)-2 Launch:  Following the successful launch yesterday of 3 cubesats, J-SSOD-2 launches continued today with the deployment of NASA’s TechEdSat satellite.  TechEdSat will be used to test an exo-brake de-orbit system.  Following the satellite deployment Wakata returned the J-SSOD from the JEMRMS back through the JEM Airlock into the JEM.
Lab Forward Starboard Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan Cleaning: FE-5 Mastracchio inspected and cleaned the Lab forward starboard IMV fan, silencer, and inlet screen. The task was performed as a result of flow measurements taken in October, during which time ground teams recognized there was degraded flow. The measurement at the Lab forward starboard was measured at 97 cubic feet per minute (cfm).  The IMV flow should be greater than 115 cfm to ensure that the fan is operating outside of the stall region and therefore protects the hardware and maintains station acoustic specification limits.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-5 Test:  Hopkins and Wakata set up and initiated a CEF ICF-5 run.  CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners.  The ICF5 test chamber has a square cross section and the top half of the test chamber is divided by two vanes into four quadrants.  Four valves at the top of the test chamber allow fluid to drain for each of the four quadrants.  Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity.  Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
Thermolab Instrumentation for Circadian Rhythms with Actiwatch:  Today Wakata configured and donned an Actiwatch then instrumented himself with Thermolab sensors attached to a Thermolab Unit on his belt.  This equipment will be worn for the next 36 hours for the first of his planned sessions.  The ESA Circadian Rhythms experiment examines the role of synchronized circadian rhythms (the human body’s 24 hour light-dark cycle) and its maintenance during long duration spaceflight.  Understanding how changes in body composition, body temperature regulation and physical activity affect circadian rhythms will support development of enhancements for performance and health care of future crewmembers.
Tracking Data Relay Satellite (TDRS)-172 Testing:  Mastracchio successfully performed S-Band and Ku-Band communications checks with MCC-H in an effort to checkout NASA’s new TDRS-172. Meanwhile, Flight Controllers received telemetry and sent commands to ISS. This was the first of four events scheduled for the satellite, which will test ISS compatibility and validate the satellites S and K-Band services. TDRS 172 was launched on January 30th 2013 from Cape Canaveral, Florida onboard an Atlas V Rocket.  The spacecraft includes several modifications from older satellites in the TDRS System, including redesigned telecommunications payload electronics and a high-performance solar panel designed for more spacecraft power to meet growing S-band requirements.
Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) Revision 1 Software Patch 3 Upload:  Overnight, ground teams successfully uplinked iPEHG R1 Patch 3 to iPEHG-1, iPEHG-2 and the Columbus iPEHG.  This patch contained updates to both the Controller Card and Switch Software within the iPEHGs.  The patch included updates to increase the number of static routes that the iPEHGs can support in preparation for future Joint Station LAN (JSL) upgrades, and various updates to minimize payload data loss and decrease recovery time following an iPEHG reset.

