
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: The crew continued preparation for the third AMS repair EVA with procedure reviews.  The AMS-02 repair EVAs are being performed with the goal of recovering a series of cooling pumps within the AMS-02 experiment. The first and second of the AMS EVAs were completed successfully and went very well. The third EVA is currently scheduled to occur next Monday, 02-December.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
Life Support Rack (LSR) Remove & Replace (R&R): As a troubleshooting measure, the crew performed the necessary activities to change out the Deionization Unit in the LSR.  LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. It generates oxygen (O2) and removes carbon dioxide (CO2) from the cabin atmosphere. In addition, CO2 and hydrogen (H2) can be used to synthetize water (H2O) and methane (CH4).
Rodent Research-14 (RR-14):  The second day of the RR-14 science sessions was performed today.  RR–14 focuses on microgravity as a disruptor of the 12-hour circatidal clock.   The study uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior.
Systems:
JEM Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Back-up Drive System (BDS) Checkout: In preparation for SpaceX-19 arrival on 12/7/19, the crew worked with ground teams to accomplish the JEMRMS BDS checkout activity.  During this activity, the following checkouts were successfully performed: communication between Back-up Controller (BUC) and Joint Electronics Units (JEUs), JEU matrix command function, Emergency Stop function, Console Bus and Arm Bus channel reconfiguration.

