
AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer) EVA#2:
Today, ISS CDR Luca Parmitano (EV-1) and FE-9 Drew Morgan (EV-2) conducted US EVA #60 (AMS EVA #2) to perform the following tasks:

Power Cable Preparation
Mechanical Attachment Device (MAD) Install
Depressurization Cut
VSB Tube Rough Cut
VSB MLI Closeout
Nadir MLI Removal
Nadir Tube Rough Cut

The multiple AMS-02 repair EVAs are being performed to recover a series of cooling pumps within the AMS-02 experiment. The first of the series of EVAs occurred last Friday. The second EVA is scheduled to occur this Friday, November 22nd.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
EML:  As a continuation of the science campaign, the crew opened the appropriate Argon valves and closed the Helium valves.  The EML (Electro-Magnetic Levitator) is a 360 kg multi-user facility designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.  EML can accommodate up to 18 samples, each 5 to 8 mm in size.  Heating rates of up to 100 Kelvin per second can be achieved with a maximum temperature of 2,100°C.
ISS Experience: The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware in the Node 1 area to capture the today’s EVA operations.  In this session, the crew described the exercise preparation to get ready for the EVA, the checks that are performed for the EVA hardware, and the entry into the airlock and eventually going outside the ISS on EVA day.  The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.

