
Payloads
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS): Today the crew installed the carbon dioxide sensor adlink for Node 3 use. These activities are being performed in preparation for Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS). The TAS system tests a method to remove carbon dioxide (CO2) from air on-board the ISS, using actively heated and cooled amine beds. Controlling CO2 levels on the station reduces the likelihood of crew members experiencing symptoms of CO2 buildup, which include fatigue, headache, breathing difficulties, strained eyes, and itchy skin. The system includes elements that reduce loss of water vapor, and recover CO2 for use in electrolysis to produce oxygen.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): The crew gathered the appropriate hardware and installed humidifier 2 into the CBEF incubator unit. The CBEF is a JAXA subrack facility and includes an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Drop Vibration: The crew continued the frequency scans and science runs for the Drop Vibration experiment. These tests occurred at several difference frequencies and on different substrates. Inertial Spreading with Vibration and Water Coalescence (Drop Vibration) examines the behavior of big liquid drops whose perimeter of contact, called the contact line, moves rapidly as the drops change shape either forced by vibration or freely by merger. These motions, fast and small on Earth, become slower and larger in microgravity and so can be more closely observed. Such observations improve the currently limited understanding of contact lines, important in applications such as self-cleaning surfaces, water harvesting devices, anti-frost coatings and the fabrication of semiconductors.
GRASP: The crew performed multiple GRAPS session including Visual-Visual (visual stimulus – visual response), Visual-Manual (visual stimulus – manual response), and Manual-Manual (manual stimulus – manual response) protocols. The purpose of the Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP) investigation is to better understand how the Central Nervous System (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Moderate Temperature Protein Crystallization Growth (MTPCG) #5: The crew performed icebrick insertions into Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST2) in preparation for the MTPCG samples arriving on SpX-21. The objective of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Moderate Temperature Protein Crystallization Growth (JAXA Moderate Temp PCG) investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail; the structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs, and to explore the mystery of our lives. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a cargo resupply vehicle and crystallized at 20°C using the counter-diffusion method. 
Space Fibers-2: The crew removed Space Fibers-2 Fabrication Module from the Docking Module and stowed it. Manufacturing Fiber Optic Cable in Microgravity (Space Fibers) evaluates a method for producing fiber optic cable from a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium and aluminum, called ZBLAN, in space. ZBLAN produces glass one hundred times more transparent than silica-based glass, exceptional for fiber optics. Microgravity suppresses mechanisms that commonly degrade fiber, and previous studies showed improved properties in fiber drawn in microgravity compared to that fabricated on the ground.
Systems
Node 3 NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL) Preparations: The crew completed several activities to prepare Node 3 for the integration of the NRAL, arriving on SpaceX-21. The crew installed a new Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) fan bracket, reversed the Node 3 Port Forward IMV fan, and replaced the Node 3 Forward 1 diffuser with a Node 3 Forward 1 IMV inlet in order to provide airflow to the NRAL. The crew also routed a 120 Volts Direct Current (VDC) power jumper and a 1553 Ethernet jumper in Node 3 which will provide the NRAL with the necessary power and data connections upon installation to the Node 3 Port Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM). The NRAL will be the first permanent, commercial addition to the ISS infrastructure. The module will offer five times the current volume of the US Airlock for moving items in and out of the space station today and will enable commercial utilization of the ISS.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Operations: The ISS crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.

