
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kelly performed his Flight Day 240 thigh and calf ultrasound scans today with assistance from Lindgren and guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kornienko completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment.  During the experiment he performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. Fine Motor Skills sessions completed by Kelly and Kornienko will provide data for identification of trends or variations in fine motor performance in microgravity over the duration of their year-long space mission and upon their return to earth.
 
EXPRESS (EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station) Rack 6 Laptop Software Load:  Yui supported the ongoing software updates to ISS EXPRESS Rack laptops by copying a software load to the EXPRESS Rack 6 laptop.  These software updates include enhanced security with the Windows 7 operating system, new features and support for new capabilities.
 
Crew Handover Conference:  Kelly, Volkov, and Kornienko conducted a video conference with Soyuz 45 Crew (Malenchenko, Kopra, and Peake) in order to pass along lessons learned. The purpose was to begin the handover process prior to the arrival on orbit through video conferences and data exchanges between the current crew and the upcoming crew.  Soyuz 45 is scheduled to launch from the Baikonur Cosmodrome on 15 December 2015.
 
Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 1:  Kelly, Lindgren, and Yui utilized a Robotic Trainer in order to practice nominal and off nominal Cygnus rendezvous and capture scenarios.  Orbital ATK (OA)-4 is scheduled to launch on December 3rd with rendezvous and berthing occurring December 6th.
 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS):  Today robotic ground controllers commanded the SSRMS to grapple the PMM Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) using Latching End Effector (LEE) B in support of the investigation into the rigidize mechanism anomaly that occurred during HTV-5 release.   Unloaded checkouts were performed on October 23rd.   Loaded checkouts were successfully performed today and the data gathered will be assessed by the team.  Then controllers performed LEE-B diagnostics on the prime string and SSRMS brake and joint diagnostics on both strings, in preparation for OA-4 capture and berthing in December.
 

