
Countermeasures System (CMS) Periodic Fitness Evaluation (PFE): Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio with assistance from FE-3 Hopkins, performed his PFE today.  PFEs monitor crewmembers’ overall fitness levels, to ensure that cardiovascular and musculoskeletal health and performance is satisfactory. The activity consists of performing a graded exercise test on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).
Circadian Rhythms:  FE-6 Wakata completed his first 36 hour Circadian Rhythms session.  The ESA Circadian Rhythms experiment examines the role of synchronized circadian rhythms (the human body’s 24 hour light-dark cycle) and its maintenance during long duration spaceflight.  Understanding how changes in body composition, body temperature regulation and physical activity affect circadian rhythms will support development of enhancements for performance and health care of future crewmembers.
Ocular Health (OH) Cardiac and Ocular Ultrasounds: Wakata performing as the Crew Medical Officer,  assisted Hopkins in preparing for and conducting ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans as part of Hopkins’ Flight Day 60 OH session.  Remote guidance was provided by ground experts to ensure proper positioning and data collection. These ultrasounds are used to identify changes in ocular globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
4K Camera Checkout:  Wakata set up and performed the second part of the checkout of JAXA’s 4K camera in the Cupola. The checkout was performed in preparation for JAXA’s 4K live PAO event scheduled for December 4,2013. During that event, video images from the Cupola of the ISON Comet will be captured using the 4K Ultra High Definition System.
AnisoTubule Experiment: Wakata performed activities to support JAXA’s Aniso Tubule experiment.  He then retrieved the seeds he had watered 4 days previously and placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to simulate a winter season for the plants.  He exposed the seeds to light for approximately 8 hours and then place them in a light proof bag.  The Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems
Sprint Ultrasound Scans: Mastracchio supporting as the operator, conducted the first Sprint ultrasound scans of Wakata’s thigh and calf, with remote guidance from the ground team.  The Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.

