
4K Camera Checkout:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata continued the checkout of JAXA’s 4K camera in the Cupola with remote settings for the camera and automatic shooting.  During the checkout Wakata adjusted the angle of view and verified video recording had been performed successfully. However, JAXA teams encountered problems with downlinking the video. Troubleshooting steps are being developed.  The checkout was performed in preparation for JAXA’s 4K live public affairs event scheduled for December 4,2013.  During that event, video images of the ISON comet will be captured from the Cupola using the 4K Ultra High Definition System.
Sprint VO2 Experiment:  Wakata prepared for the first of his six planned Sprint VO2 sessions.  He set up Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) hardware for his session tomorrow.  The Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.  The investigator’s long range goal is to develop and optimize exercise countermeasures for use in long-duration spaceflights.
Material Science Laboratory (MSL) Solidification and Quench Furnce (SQF) Sample Cartridge Exchange:  FE-5 Mastracchio removed a used sample cartridge from the SQF and replace it with Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST)-2 test sample 10. This activity was aborted last Friday because of a stuck door locking pin.  MICAST-2 is an ESA investigation that aims to deepen the quantitative understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. In these experiments, the influence of a rotating magnetic field on the solidification process is also investigated. Microgravity offers a unique opportunity to obtain well-controlled solidification conditions for these alloys.
ICS-PM Power Control and Distribution Unit (IP-PCDU) Remove & Replace (R&R): FE-3 Hopkins performed an R&R of the IP-PCDU. The unit had failed in July of 2011 and a replacement was flown onboard HTV-4 earlier this year. The IP-PCDU supplies power to the JEM Inter Orbit Communication System (ICS), an independent intercommunications network between the JEM and the Tsukuba Space Center which utilizes JAXA’s Data Relay Test Satellite (DRTS).

