
Fluids Integration Rack (FIR) maintenance:  Wilmore replaced both the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) Microscope Power/Data Cable 1 and the LMM Monochrome Camera 1 and configured LMM for microscope characterization. The configuration includes removing the current Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) sample, replacing one objective lens, and installing Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment (PACE) Target inside Auxiliary Fluids Container.



















 
Portable Power Supply-2 (PPS-2) (T-Cell Activation in Aging):  Wilmore set up the portable power supply in the Columbus module.  He then unstowed and setup a Kubik module and performed a functional checkout of the PPS at maximum Kubik power draw. At the conclusion of the checkout, he disconnected and stowed the Kubik unit.   Kubik is a small controlled temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity experiments such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals.  T-Cell Culture Cassettes for the Kubik incubator will be delivered to the ISS on a SpX-5.  T-Cell Activation in Aging seeks the cause of a depression in the human immune system while in microgravity. T-cells, a type of white cell, are coated with chemical receptors that must trigger together to activate the body’s immune system properly. T-cells from flight crews and ground volunteers in a range of ages are analyzed to determine changes in protein production and gene response on the ground and in microgravity.
 
BioLab (Triplelux-B):  The activity to perform an update of the Triplelux displays on the BioLab laptop was deferred today.  The activity was scheduled in preparation for Triplelux–B samples, which arrive on SpX-5.  The objective of Triplelux-B is to further understand the cellular mechanisms underlying the increase in radiation responses, and the impairment of the immune system functions, under spaceflight conditions. Triplelux-B specifically studies phagocytosis in invertebrate immune cells, using Hemocyte primary cells (non-adherent suspension) derived from the blue mussel (Mytilus edulis), for investigating basic immune functions. Those functions include the induction of gene activation, phagocytosis, and DNA repair on the radiation affected cells.
 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill:  As part of routine maintenance, Wilmore performed a manual fill of the WHC Flush Water Tank. The procedure had Wilmore temporarily disconnect the Dose Pump in order to protect it from increased pressures during the fill.  Once pressure equalized, the Dose Pump was reconnected.  Wilmore took photos during today’s activity for downlink and ground analysis.
 

