
Cemsica Sample Exchange:  Today the crew removed the calibration cartridge from the SUBSA facility and inserted the first Cemsica science cartridge for processing. Cemsica tests a novel approach of using particles of calcium-silicate (C-S) to synthesize nanoporous membranes (those with pores 100 nanometers or smaller) that can separate carbon dioxide molecules from air or other gases. Synthesizing the materials in microgravity may resolve existing challenges in membrane manufacturing and lead to development of lower-cost membranes with improved flux and high-temperature stability. SUBSA offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C.
NanoRacks External Platform Inserts (NREP) Hardware Swap: The crew installed the new experiment plate and Hyperspectral Earth Imaging System Trial (HEIST) onto the NREP. Due to an unexpected L-bracket configuration on the HEIST hardware, it was mounted to an alternate location, but no science impacts are expected. HEIST is a compact hyperspectral sensor system for commercial Earth observation. Hyperspectral data from hundreds of narrow spectral bands result in extremely high spectral resolution and a contiguous reflectance spectrum of each pixel in the image, from visible light all the way through infrared. NanoRacks-ISS-HEIST offers a less expensive and smaller option for a commercial hyperspectral sensor deployed in space. The NREP represents the first external commercial research capability for testing in support of scientific investigations, sensors, and electronic components in space.
Veg-03G Harvest: The crew harvested the Dragoon lettuce and Red Russian Kale plants that have been growing since October 25. Part of the harvest was packed for return for ground analysis and the rest of the harvest was made available for crew consumption.  The crew also performed microbial sampling and cleaning/drying of the Veggie facility hardware. The primary goal of the Veg-03 G/H/I testing is to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie hardware using leafy green vegetables as a test crops.
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) 3003 and 3008 H20 Recharge, Loop Scrub, and Iodination: In preparation for the potential of upcoming ExtraVehicular Activities (EVAs), the crew refilled both EMUs feedwater tanks. The crew then performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU Transport Loop.

