
Special Purpose Inexpensive Satellite (SpinSat):  Wilmore and ground operations teams deployed the SpinSat today.   The Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) was depressed, the outer hatch opened and the slide table extended.  The JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) small fine Arm (SFA) guided to grapple the Cyclops launch platform and maneuvered into position for the SpinSat jettison.  Once the SpinSat was deployed, the slide table was retracted and the outer hatch closed.  The objective of SpinSat experiment is to fly a 22-inch diameter spherical satellite equipped with an array of electrically-controlled solid propellant thrusters. It is intended to be a tumbling satellite having a mass of approximately 50 kg with a single axis momentum wheel and multiple micro-thrusters on the sphere’s surface. For its initial space flight demonstration, SpinSat aims to test movement and positioning of small satellite in space using new technology micro-thrusters. 
Cardio OX Ultrasound:  Wilmore setup and configured ultrasound hardware to support his flight day 60 Cardio Ox.  With Cristoforetti acting as the Crew Medical Officer and guidance from the Cardio Ox ground team, ultrasound scans to measure blood pressure were performed on Wilmore.  The objective Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR):  Virts performed maintenance and outfitting of the CIR in support of future activities.  The Optics bench was rotated to allow the removal of the low light level (LLL) infrared (IR) Filter Module from the back of the Optics Bench. The crew restrained the package to the Maintenance Work Area (MWA), removed a filter in the package and re-installed the package on the Optics Bench. Time did not permit for replacement of the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Avionics Package on the back of the CIR Optics Bench. This activity will be re-scheduled.
Cognition:  Virts, acting as the Cognition test operations subject, powered on Human Research Facility laptop, launched the Cognition application, and completed the Cognition test.  Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results.
ELITE-S2 (ELaboratore di Immagini TElevisive, Space qualified, version 2) (Blind and Imagined): Cristoforetti powered on the Interface Management Unit (IMU) to enable the payload developer to command and downlink the ELITE test session.  The Movement in Orbital Vehicle Experiments Short and Blind (MOVE SB) and Space Height Reference In Non-gravitational Kinetics (SHRINK) Investigations, collectively known as Blind and Imagined, are a series of tests crewmembers perform on the ISS to test their physical senses. Crewmembers move their arms and hands, and then imagine themselves throwing a ball on Earth and in microgravity, while cameras record their movement. The results will help scientists study the sensory and motor changes that take place in the unique environment of space.
Drain Brain:  Cristoforetti set up and configured ultrasound equipment to peform Drain Brain protocol self scans with guidance from the ground team.  On Earth, blood flows down from a person’s brain back toward the heart thanks in part to gravity, but very little is known about how this flow happens without gravity’s effects.  Many crewmembers report headaches and other neurological symptoms in space, which may be related to the absence of gravity acting on blood flowing through the veins. Drain Brain uses a special neck collar to measure blood flow from the brain, to help researchers understand which physical processes in the body can compensate for the lack of gravity to ensure blood flows properly.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK4):  Crew continued to install and configure equipment to support the PK-4 experiment.  Samokatyaev installed an electrical harness, gas/vacuum hoses and system hard drives. She also moved the Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS) Sensor Enclosure (SE) from the SAMS Seat Track Device on Express Rack 3 (ER3) to the European Physiology Module (EPM).  Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4) is a scientific payload for performing research in the field of ‘Complex Plasmas’: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.

