
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: The crew continued preparation for the third AMS repair EVA with procedure reviews.  The AMS-02 repair EVAs are being performed with the goal of recovering a series of cooling pumps within the AMS-02 experiment. The first and second of the AMS EVAs were completed successfully and went very well. The third EVA is currently scheduled to occur next Monday, 02-December.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
Analog-1 teardown: Following the completion of the first experiment run on Monday, and subsequent verification of a good data set by the ground team, the crew disassembled and stowed the hardware used to support the experiment.  Space is such a harsh place for humans and machines that future exploration of the Solar System may involve sending robotic explorers to “test the waters” on uncharted planets before sending humans.  The parent METERON project is a European initiative to help prepare for future human-robotic exploration missions to the Moon, Mars, and other celestial bodies. The project is organized around a series of experiments as preparatory steps towards gaining the experience needed, through adaptation of the traditional ways of working, to effectively and efficiently support operations of human and robotic combined elements on a planetary surface.
Ice Cubes:  As a continuation of the troubleshooting, the crew replaced both, the systems and the data, Solid State Drives (SSDs) in the Ice Cubes facility.  The ICE Cubes Facility is an experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration, or educational objectives. 
Rodent Research-14 (RR-14): The third day of the RR-14 science sessions was performed today.  Rodent Research–14 focuses on microgravity as a disruptor of the 12-hour circatidal clock.   The study uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior.
Photobioreactor Remove: The crew performed the proper disconnections and pressure readings to support the removal of the Photobioreactor, which was then packed for return.  The PBR investigation, which was started on 06-June and lost power on 21-June,was planned to last 6 months, with a minimum science requirement of 1 month.  Only 15 days of run time were obtained before a failure of the hardware, and only 2 of the 5 planned samplings were obtained in this 15 day timeframe.  The Photobioreactor investigation aims at demonstrating that microalgae (i.e. biological processes) can be used together with existing systems to improve recycling of resources, creating a hybrid life support system. This hybrid approach could be helpful in future long-duration exploration missions, as it could reduce the amount of consumables required from Earth, and will first be tested in space on the ISS.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Operations:  Overnight, the ISS crew noticed the WHC check pump separator light that was illuminated.  The crew used a WHC cue card and went through the troubleshooting steps that was not successful to clear the light.  After waking up this morning, the crew replaced the WHC pump separator and restored the WHC to nominal ops.  In addition, the crew completed In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace.

