
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-8 Test:  Today, Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata set up and initiated a CFE ICF-8 run.  CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners of vessels with various geometries.  The ICF-8 vessel has vanes aligned along the vertex of a teardrop shaped cylinder. Liquid shifts from the base of the container to along the sides, with bubbles separating from side to side rather than bottom to top.  It also passively separates bubbles, but with a different geometric dependence. Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity.  Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
Ocular Health (OH) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Test and Fundoscope Examination:  FE-5 Mastracchio, performing as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), conducted an OCT test as part of FE-3 Hopkins’ Flight Day 60 OH session that will be performed over three days.  Following the OCT examination, Hopkins applied drops in both of his eyes to dilate them.  Mastracchio then conducted a Fundoscope eye examination with remote guidance from ground experts. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Port Solar Array Mast Imagery: Today, Flight Controllers prepositioned the Port Solar Array and configured Beta Gimbal Assemblies (BGA) 2B and 4A in support of Mastracchio’s photo-survey from the DC-1 windows. The focus was on the mast structure from tip to base.  These images will provide a baseline assessment of the mast health and provide a comparison tool for future inspections.

