
Seedling Growth-2: The third of three six-day-growth sessions was completed today. Wilmore removed Experiment Containers (ECs) from the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS), processed the samples and stowed them in the Minus Eighty degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight.  In a troubleshooting effort, the crew installed the single EC which did not hydrate during the first Seedling Growth session. Seedling Growth-2 is the second part of the Seedling Growth Experiment series and uses the plant Arabidopsis thaliana to determine the effects of gravity on cellular signaling mechanisms of phototropism and to investigate cell growth and proliferation responses to light stimulation in microgravity conditions. Seedling Growth 2 requires three EMCS runs to be performed to collect image data and frozen samples.



















 
3D Printing in Zero-G:  Wilmore performed steps to open up the 3D printer and remove the partially completed coupon which was printed on November 17th.  He then monitored the printing of a second coupon to further calibrate the 3D printer. The 3-D Printing In Zero-G technology demonstration experiment will show that a 3-D printer can work normally in space. A 3-D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create three-dimensional objects. Testing a 3-D printer on the International Space Station is the first step towards establishing a working machine shop in space, a critical component for astronaut missions and in-space manufacturing.
 
Command and Data Handling (C&DH) MIL-STD-1553 Data Bus Checkout: Today, Flight Controllers successfully performed an activity to checkout the redundant channels of all active 1553 data busses downstream of the Multiplexer/De-multiplexers (MDMs) onboard the ISS.  This checkout is performed every 6 months to verify redundancy and characterize performance. 
 
Russian Treadmill (BD2) Status: Yesterday, the Russian Treadmill (BD2) experienced a failure with its control panel. The Russian crewmembers have since been given a go to use the USOS Treadmill (T2), meanwhile BD2 is repaired. Overnight, the crew performed troubleshooting steps which proved unsuccessful. Recovery efforts will continue in the coming days while Russian ground specialists assess launching spare parts in order to recover from the failure.       
 

