
Robonaut 2 Troubleshooting:   Lindgren continued troubleshooting Robonaut’s Compact Peripheral Component Interface today.    Robonaut 2 is a two-armed humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, work in high risk environments, and respond safely to unexpected obstacles. Robonaut is currently mounted inside the ISS.  In the future, it will perform tasks both inside and outside the ISS.
 
Veggie (Veg-01):  Kelly refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water.  The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Biological Rhythms 48 Hours:  At the end of his work day Lindgren removed the Holter Electrocardiogram and transfered data from the Holter and Acitwatch to the Medical laptop.  This investigation studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While the ISS schedule follows Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), it is not known whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this, astronauts wear an Actiwatch for 96 hours and a Holter electrocardiograph for 48 hours.
 
Haptics-1:  Yui set up equipment and performed experiment protocols for the rack-mounted configuration of European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) Haptics-1 investigation. The Haptics-1 experiment is performed in two different configurations to evaluate hardware and human performance under varying mounting conditions: wall-mounted on rack seat tracks and body-mounted in a vest assembly.  Haptics-1 supports analysis of engineering parameters and the merits of body-grounded versus non-body grounded force feedback to a crewmember within a microgravity environment.  The physiological property analysis will identify changes in human kinesthetic perception and performance in position and force-torque control tasks and in cognitive performance.
 
Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU):  Yui installed the spare MHU Interface Unit in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) for checkout.  He then installed spare MHU cages into the CBEF for a ground commanded checkout.
 
Cognition:  Kornienko performed his Flight Day 233 session of the Cognition experiment today.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
44 Soyuz (44S) Emergency Egress Drill:  The 44S Crew (Kelly, Volkov, and Kornienko) participated in an emergency decent drill.  This training session focuses on off-nominal procedures that would be used in the event the crew needs to egress the ISS and perform an emergency descent.  The drill is scheduled when the crew has been aboard the ISS for 12-14 weeks, then once every 2.5 months.
 
Port Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ) Survey:  Kelly configured a D4 Camera in order to perform a periodic imagery survey of the port TRRJ from the Docking Compartment 1 window. During this task, the Radiator was rotated to two different angles to photograph both sides of the TRRJ. This survey is conducted yearly for data gathering purposes.
 
ISS Reboost: This afternoon the ISS performed a reboost using 61 Progress (61P) thrusters.  Delta-V was 1.946 meters/second, burn duration was 15 minutes 32.8 seconds. This reboost sets up conditions for the 43S landing on December 11 and the 45S 4-orbit rendezvous on December 15.
 

