
CASIS PCG-16 card fill: The crew continued the PCG Card Micro-G card fill that was not fully completed the previous day. This was performed using some of today’s microscope observation time due to the relatively short lifetime of the protein precipitant solution. Crystallization of LRRK2 Under Microgravity Conditions-2 (CASIS PCG 16) evaluates growth of Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) protein crystals in microgravity. LRRK2 is implicated in Parkinson’s disease, but crystals of the protein grown on Earth are too small and compact to study. Detailed analysis of larger, space-grown crystals can define the protein’s exact shape and morphology and help scientists better understand the disease’s pathology. 
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) – Multi-use Variable-g Processing Facility (MVP Cell-05) insert 2: The crew mixed the samples, inserted them into the MICS Module, then installed the MICS Module into the MVP Platform. This will start run 2 of 3 for the investigation. MVP Cell-05 investigates the complex process of cement solidification at gravity levels of interest (lunar, Mars and 0.7-g). The MVP facility is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others. It includes internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity.
Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA) setup in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) 2: The crew finished the installation of the SUBSA hardware in the MSG work volume, installed the calibration sample, and took 5 – 10 photos of hardware setup. This is being performed in support of the Cemsica investigation setup that was not fully completed yesterday. Cemsica tests a novel approach of using particles of calcium-silicate (C-S) to synthesize nanoporous membranes (those with pores 100 nanometers or smaller) that can separate carbon dioxide molecules from air or other gases. Synthesizing the materials in microgravity may resolve existing challenges in membrane manufacturing and lead to development of lower-cost membranes with improved flux and high-temperature stability. SUBSA offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C.
The Effect of Long Duration Hypogravity on the Perception of Self-Motion (VECTION): The crew performed the setup of the reference length for use in future operations.  However, issues with the Zbook laptop prevented execution of the commissioning activities today for the VECTION experiment. The objective of the VECTION study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated. 
SpaceX 16 (SpX-16) Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): The crew reviewed Dragon Robotics procedures and participated in a conference with ground specialists in support of SpX-16 Dragon arrival. Using computer based training, the crew reviewed the Dragon mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures, and the crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding Dragon. SpX-16 Dragon launch is currently scheduled for December 4 with capture and berthing planned for December 6.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: The crew completed the monthly T2 inspection with no issues noted. This activity has the crew inspect all four Snubber Arms for signs of free play.

