
Payloads:
Atmospheric Waves Experiment (AWE): The recently installed external AWE experiment has been activated, but the team is currently working through some data issues at its EXPRESS Logistics Carrier (ELC1) location. From its external space station perch, AWE will focus on colorful bands of light in Earth’s atmosphere, called airglow, to determine what combination of forces drive space weather in the upper atmosphere. Researchers once thought that only the Sun’s constant outflow of ultraviolet light and particles, the solar wind, could affect the region. However, recently they have learned that solar variability is not enough to drive the changes observed, and Earth’s weather also must be having an effect. To help unravel that connection, AWE will investigate how waves in the lower atmosphere, caused by variations in the densities of different packets of air, impact the upper atmosphere. 
Cerebral Aging: The crew performed sampling and media exchanges on the appropriate BioCells. Cell culture media contains nutrients and a pH buffer to sustain cells, and needs to be exchanged periodically as the nutrients are used up and waste products accumulate. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space of cerebral organoids.  Cerebral organoids are 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain at the molecular and cellular level. Also included for analysis in this investigation are markers of cell stress, metabolism, and ageing in healthy control samples, and cerebral organoids with mutations that lead to accelerated ageing. With this investigation, the research team seeks to establish and validate a pipeline that can be used for experiments with human cells in future long-duration spaceflight.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): A cognition test was performed, and samples were collected in support of the CIPHER suite of investigations. CIPHER aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Sleep in Orbit: The crew participated in two overnight recording sessions for the Sleep in Orbit experiment. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear- Electroencephalography (EEG) based sleep monitoring.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew reviewed the VR Mental Care Big Picture Words, donned the hardware, and performed an experiment session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
SpaceX-29 Urine Tank Capacity Test Troubleshooting and Water Fill: Today, the crew completed troubleshooting for the Urine Tank Capacity Test and started water fill activities. Additional activities are expected over the next few days to complete all test objectives.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) with KUDUwave Software Setup and Test: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
HMS Tonometry Test Operations: Today, the crew performed Tonometry tests to check their intraocular pressure. Exposure to the microgravity environment results in an initial increase to intraocular pressure which returns to normal over time. The cause and long term effects of this are still unknown making it a high priority study in preparation for long duration space mission to the Moon, and later Mars.
Russian EDV Inspection: Today, the crew performed a visual inspection of a Russian EDV to determine if its contents can be processed through the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). Imagery of the Russian EDV was downlinked for ground teams to analyze.
