
AMS EVA preparation: The crew continued preparation for the third AMS repair EVA with procedure reviews.  The multiple AMS-02 repair EVAs are being performed to recover a series of cooling pumps within the AMS-02 experiment. The first and second of the AMS EVAs were completed successfully and went very well. The third EVA is currently scheduled to occur next Monday, 02-December.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
Analog-1 Science session: The crew performed the science session for Analog-1.  In this session, the crew controlled and interacted with the rover to identify and describe rocks, and attempt collection of various rocks based on feedback from the ground team.  The ground team is still looking over the data collected from the session, but believes the session went very well.  Space is such a harsh place for humans and machines that future exploration of the Solar System may involve sending robotic explorers to “test the waters” on uncharted planets before sending humans.  The parent METERON project is a European initiative to help prepare for future human-robotic exploration missions to the Moon, Mars, and other celestial bodies. The project is organized around a series of experiments as preparatory steps towards gaining the experience needed, through adaptation of the traditional ways of working, to effectively and efficiently support operations of human and robotic combined elements on a planetary surface.
Standard Measures: Using the data collection on an available SSC (Station Support Computer), the crew performed their pre-sleep questionnaire.  The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Rodent Research-14:  The first day of the RR-14 science sessions was performed today.  Rodent Research–14 focuses on microgravity as a disruptor of the 12-hour circatidal clock.   The study uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior.
Systems:
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Flush Water Hose Replacement:  On GMT 298, the T-hose (S/N 7) which connects the EDV-CB, the Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Flush Water Tank Empty Pressure Sensor (“Empty Sensor”), and the Water Valve Block did not successfully mate to the empty sensor. Today, the crew performed a fit check with a new T-Hose (S/N 8) to the empty sensor and a new EDV.  The S/N 8 T-hose did not mate with the installed empty tank sensor so the crew continued with the remaining operations including EDV full flush tank fill and inspection.  The forward plan will be to swap the empty sensor with another spare on-board.

