
AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer) EVA Preparation: The crew continued preparation for the AMS repair EVAs with procedure reviews.  The multiple AMS-02 repair EVAs are being performed to recover a series of cooling pumps within the AMS-02 experiment. The first of the series of EVAs occurred last Friday. The second EVA is scheduled to occur this Friday, November 22nd.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
BEST Sample Transfer: The crew performed the routine cell maintenance activities for week 11 of the on-going BEST experiment 2. These activities involve cell transfer, cell culture media exchange, etc.  This type of long-term bacterial growth experiment has not been performed before on ISS.  The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L) Incubator Installation: The crew performed activities in support of part 1 of the CBEF-L incubator installation into the Saibo Rack.  CBEF-L is a new JAXA subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as full high definition video interface, Ethernet, a 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
J-SSOD-12 (JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-12): All 3 satellites were successfully deployed via ground commanding on today.  The satellites were:

AQT-D (AQua Thruster-Demonstrator) from Japan:  This satellite has one Delta-V-Thruster (< 4 mili-Newtons of Force) for orbital maneuvers and four Reaction-Control-Thruster (< 1 mili-Newtons of Force) for reaction control.  These thrusters use water as a propellant.
RWASAT-1 (RWanda Satellite-1) from Rwanda: RWASAT-1 has two cameras for monitoring the status of agriculture, and a receiver for data collection from ground based sensors.
NARSSCube-1 (National Authority for Remote Sensing and Space Sciences) from Egypt:  The CubeSat carries a small camera with a ground resolution of 200 meters to gather imagery of Egyptian territory.

The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Radi-N2 Retrieve: The crew retrieved all eight detectors and pouches from the Node 1 locations and delivered them to the Russian crew member for data download. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight. It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
HRF Ultrasound Unit Replacement: The crew assisted with the replacement of the current Ultrasound 2 unit with an identical replacement unit.  This is not in response to any anomalies, but due to a CMOS (Complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor) battery lifetime issue.  The Ultrasound 2 on the ISS is a modified commercial off-the-shelf Ultrasound system that provides high-resolution ultrasound images of target areas in the human body. The Ultrasound unit works in conjunction with the Human Research Facility (HRF) Video Power Converter, which provides the capability of real-time ultrasound video downlink. The real-time video allows ground personnel to remotely guide crew members in order to obtain the best possible images for use by investigators or medical personnel.
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor: The crew used a GSC (Grab Sample Container) to collect an ISS cabin air sample within two meters of the Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor.  This Grab sample can be subsequently analyzed on the ground for data comparison purposes. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor investigation demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer instrument aboard the ISS to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement (Nitrogen, Oxygen, Carbon Dioxide, Methane, Water, etc). The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team. It has a mass of less than 9.5 kg, and consumes less than 40 watts of power.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Operations: The crew performed WHC preventative maintenance today.  They gathered the necessary parts for EDV (Water Container [sic]) transfer hose replacement, then configured the Pre-Treated Urine T-Valve by depressurizing the installed EDV transfer hose and replaced the degraded transfer hose with a new hose.
Hatch Seal Inspection: The ISS crew cleaned and inspected the USOS Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surface, and Crank Handle Mechanism for debris or damage.  Hatch seal inspections are part of periodic maintenance.  

