
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Actiwatch Plus devices were connected to the Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1) Payload Drawer on the HRF-1 Rack for data downlink and charging. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis. 
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings (Antimicrobial Coatings): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis. 
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The Ion Pump Assembly hardware was connected to the Ion Pump for monitoring. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time. 
Immunity Assay: Samples were collected and sixteen Reaction Tubes were prepared and placed into the KUBIK incubators. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test. 
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The crew removed the processed Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductor-C6 (GTCS-C6) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA). The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS.  The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules.  Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in this way to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials. 
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew performed a VR Mental care experiment session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of virtual reality (VR) for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
JEM Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Maintenance Canister Installation: An ITCS Maintenance canister was installed in the JEM.  The canister was purged to vacuum and JEM ITCS fluid flowed through the canister for 4 hours to introduce antimicrobial agent Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA).  After the canister has been thermally equalized for at least 24 hours, it will be removed from the system. This was completed as part of routine maintenance of the JEM ITCS.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Sample Operations: The crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 (T2) 6 Month Maintenance: The crew performed the 6-month T2 preventative inspection and maintenance.  During this task, the crew inspected the snubbers, cleaned closeout panels, inspected the tread belt slats and screws, inspected the grease distribution of the treadbelt, vacuumed inside the rack and around the treadmill, and vacuumed the air filter screen.  After reviewing downlinked data and video, ground specialists deemed T2 to be NO-GO due to reports of a dry substance found on the MTL line.  Ground teams are now investigating the issue.
CMS Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance: Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance on the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails and Rollers, Upper Stop Cables, and X-Rotation Dashpots. The crew also provided feedback on ARED performance while the ARED Lift Bar was moving between Lower Stops and Upper Stops. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
