
Sarcolab-3:  This morning with Russian operator assistance, a USOS subject ingressed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) chair in the Columbus module and adjusted pads and restraints for the Sarcolab-3 ankle protocol.  The operator collected ultrasound images of the subject’s leg. Today’s activities conclude the 3-day ankle protocol that began on GMT 324. The crew will begin knee protocol operations later this afternoon, including setup and fit check in preparation for data collection operations tomorrow. The Sarcolab-3 data will be compared to pre and post flight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss.  Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crewmembers before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Miniature Exercise Device (MED-2):  The crew set up cameras in Node 3 to capture video from multiple views of the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) and MED-2 hardware, applied body markers, performed exercises and transferred the video for downlink.  The ISS’s exercise equipment is large and bulky, while the MED-2 aims to demonstrate small robotic actuators can provide motion and resistance for crew workout sessions, reducing the size and weight of exercise equipment for long-duration space missions. The MED-2 investigation is a system to test key technologies needed to develop space based exercise equipment that may provide appropriate countermeasures to the adverse effects of microgravity. This technology is critical for the initial design and development of second and third generation Counter Measure Systems (CMS) hardware that is an order of magnitude lighter and smaller than existing ISS class of CMS hardware and that has significantly greater reliability.
TangoLab-1 Transfer to Cygnus (OA-8):  The crew removed TangoLab-1 from EXPRESS Rack 4, and transferred the facility to Cygnus for a short demonstration of TangoLab-1 operations in Cygnus. This is being performed as a proof of the “extended lab” concept, wherein visiting vehicles can be used as an extension of the ISS laboratory volume while attached.  TangoLab-1 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the International Space Station (ISS). 
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems (STaARS) BioScience-5 Transfer: Following 8 days of incubation, today the crew removed the STaARS BioScience-5 Nexus Lab from the STaARS-1 experiment facility and inserted it into a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER). STaARS BioScience-5 studies how Staphylococcus aureus loses its harmful properties and changes color in microgravity. Automated culturing equipment grows S. aureus before delivering cultures to an observation chamber for data collection at predetermined time points. To understand the growth rates and morphology of the bacterium for an extended growth period, a microscope and spectrophotometer are both used. 
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): Today a 51S crewmember conducted a Flight Day 118 FMS session where the subject performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods. 
N1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Modification:  Earlier today, the crew modified the N1 nadir Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) grounding straps with longer ones in an effort to allow the CPA to be folded out of the hatchway instead of having to be removed for each vehicle that docks to this port.  
Fundoscope Eye Exam:  FE-6 completed a routine fundoscope exam today.  Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crew health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.  
Node 2 Overhead Port Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV) Diffuser Cleaning: Today the crew cleaned the overhead port diffusers and inspected internal ducting for additional Foreign Object Debris (FOD) buildup. The crew has noted that the overhead diffusers look dusty, which is consistent with IMV flow measurements showing less airflow.

