
FLame EXtinguishment (FLEX)-2 Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Exchange: This morning, the crew was scheduled to perform a Fluids and Combustion Facility (FCF) MDCA replacement in preparation for the FLEX-2 experiment.  The Crew was unable to remove the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Combustion Chamber.  Ground teams will meet to determine additional troubleshooting to assist in removing the MDCA.  FLEX-2 is the second experiment to fly on the ISS which uses small droplets of fuel to study the special spherical characteristics of burning fuel droplets in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies how quickly fuel burns, the conditions required for soot to form, and how mixtures of fuels evaporate before burning. Understanding these processes could lead to the production of a safer spacecraft as well as increased fuel efficiency for engines using liquid fuel on Earth. 
HRP Collections: The crew performed their Flight Day 30 (FD30) blood draw in support of the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. Collected samples were placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return at a later date. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. 
Robotic External Leak Locator (RELL) Preparations:  The Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) was depressurized to prepare for deploying RELL via the slidetable next week.  RELL is an instrumentation package that is maneuvered externally by the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS)/Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to detect local pressure variations to help in locating a leak.  For this demonstration, a predetermined scan/survey procedure will be executed that characterized the ISS environment and scans various ISS elements containing ammonia lines and systems.  Operations next week will also attempt to identify the source of the “white flakes” that have recently been noticed on downlink video. 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Wire Kit Installation:  Overnight, the crew completed the activities to install the JEM Stowage Wire Kit.  This Kit makes additional stowage available in the area under the JEM Airlock (JEMAL).  They installed additional wire frames and CTBs in the deck locations forward and aft of the JEMAL.  A total of 7.0 Cargo Transfer Bag Equivalent (CTBE) of stowage was gained through this JEM Stowage Wire Kit upgrade.    

