
Payloads:
Bio-Monitor: The crew assembled and donned the Bio-Monitor wearable hardware for a 48-hour recording session. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Cerebral Ageing: Media exchange was performed on sample D and the Bio-Cell sample was terminated and placed into cold stowage. Cell culture media contains nutrients and a pH buffer to sustain cells, and needs to be exchanged periodically as the nutrients are used up and waste products accumulate. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space on cerebral organoids, i.e., 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain, at the molecular and cellular level.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Immunity Assay: Eight Purple and eight Black Reaction Tubes were clipped after being in the centrifuge and then placed into cold stowage. The KUBIK incubators were stowed. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The data card from SpaceTED was removed and placed into a laptop for data downlinking. Exposure to space radiation can introduce hazards to crew member health and the function of equipment in space. Building on a previous space station study, SpaceTED aims to develop a device to collect data on crew radiation exposure and characterize the space radiation environment. This low-cost, portable device may be able to better assess radiation risks and help protect crew members and systems on long-term missions.
Systems:
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December. 
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 (T2) Unmanned Activation and Checkout (ACO): As part of the T2 6-Month preventative inspection and maintenance, an unmanned ACO was completed. T2 was verified to be GO for use after ground specialists reviewed the data. Previously, crew reported a dry substance found on the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) line and ground specialists determined this to be non-hazardous. There will be an additional inspection of the line in 3 months to track the anomaly. 
Four Bed Carbon Dioxide (4BCO2) Scrubber Bed Filters and Vacuum Bag Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew attempted to R&R the 4BCO2 bed filters and Vacuum Bag as part of In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) but were unable to due to issues with removing the bed filters. The crew will attempt this R&R at a later date. 4BCO2 Scrubber demonstrates a technology for removing CO2 from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation. A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure, and this technology is a step toward that goal.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
