
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Centrifuge Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew was scheduled to remove the 1G centrifuge from the CBEF and install a new centrifuge.  However, the bag with the new centrifuge could not be found.  Teams are investigating impacts to downstream science and opportunities to launch replacement hardware.  The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility located in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack. The CBEF is used in various life science experiments, such as cultivating cells and plants in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).
Fluid Shifts: Today, FE-1 performed his Flight Day 45 baseline imaging for the Fluid Shifts experiment.  With assistance from another crewmember as the onboard imager and ground remote guidance, ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body.  Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer were taken as well.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew inspected and confirmed that the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks are all free of damage. This maintenance is scheduled every 45 days to ensure continuous functionality of the units. 

