
Payloads:
Cell Gravisensing-2: Following the completion of the six-day experiment session last week, today the crew removed the observation chamber from the Confocal Space Microscope, and returned the microscope to its nominal configuration. Recent spaceflight experiments have revealed that individual animal cells can feel the effects of gravity. However, how cells can sense gravity is largely unknown, thus understanding this mechanism emerges as one of the most important problems to be solved in space biology. The Elucidation of Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation challenges this problem through the analysis of the substrate-rigidity sensing capability of cells during spaceflight.
Choctaw Heirloom Seeds: The crew reviewed the big picture words for the experiment and recorded a video giving details for each of the seed kits in the investigation. The Choctaw Heirloom Seeds investigation flies five varieties of Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma (CNO) heirloom seeds to the ISS as part of a cultural and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) study. Upon return, the seeds are planted in the Growing Hope Garden as part of the Jones Academy boarding school for Native Americans. Plant growth comparisons are then drawn between space-flown seeds and ground controls. This investigation intends to inspire Native American Youths to pursue careers in STEM.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE): The crew gained access to the CIR, replaced the Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) calibration unit.  The FOMA calibration is performed periodically and helps to verify accurate readings from the various measurement systems in the CIR.  The CIR facility includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies.
Space Organogenesis-2: The base unit and organoid culture unit were installed into the Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left (CBEF-L) incubator. This is part of the preparation and checkout activities for the upcoming experiment session. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell culture on Earth is limited to two dimensions but in microgravity, cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The VR Mental Care batteries were charged in preparation for upcoming science activities. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Ocular Scan: Today, the crew performed eye exams using ultrasound equipment. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filer (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of routine maintenance, the crew R&Red the WHC UR and IF. After the R&R, the crew cleaned the power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance activities. 
SpaceX Crew Dragon Urine Tank Capacity Test: Today, the crew setup and performed troubleshooting in preparation for the upcoming test sessions. The goal of this test is to find the exact maximum capacity of the Crew Dragon urine tank to help in increasing the amount of time the toilet is available to the crew while in free flight.
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December.
