ISS On-Orbit Status 11/26/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew rest day.   Godspeed Curiosity!
 
After wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
CDR Burbank, FE-1 Shkaplerov &amp; FE-2 Ivanishin joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).        ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.  Since this was the last scheduled round of Housekeeping for Exp-29, Mike &amp; Satoshi paid special attention to some safeguarding issues to ensure a good configuration in the unlikely event of station decrewing (failure of 28S crew arriving): Flammable materials securely stowed away from UOPs (Utility Outlet Panels), Rack Power Outlets, and Power Strips, no loose items that could become free-floaters during nominal dynamic events, ventilation diffusers clear of stowage, and HEPA filters vacuum-cleaned.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton &amp; Anatoly completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM.  Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.
 
The CDR conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
Using the vacuum cleaner, Dan also performed the periodic cleaning of the vent grills of the OpsLAN Server SSC (Station Support Computer) T61p laptops in the Lab (loc. O1), to ensure optimal performance.
 
After yesterday’s cable swap in the JAXA Kibo JPM on the Kobairo &amp; Ryutai racks on, followed by ground checkouts using the new MMA (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus) cable, Burbank stowed the 5.50 m cable.
 
Ivanishin completed the daily routine servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Burbank filled out his first weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).        [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
Later, Dan had another time slot set aside for making entries in his electronic Journal on his personal SSC (Station Support Computer).       [Required are three journaling sessions per week.] 
 
The CDR equipped MERLIN-2 (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator 2) in ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) with two fresh desiccant packs, then transferred all food items and the tray assembly from MERLIN-1 to MERLIN-2.  Next, he removed the old desiccant packs from MERLIN-1 and left the front door open for a 24-hr dryout.      [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]
 
Ivanishin set up and activated the Kenwood D700 ”Sputnik” amateur radio station in the SM, starting the program for the Russian KPT-14 SHADOW-BEACON (Tenj-Mayak) experiment, to run overnight using VHF radio-transmitted time-tagged radio beacon packets from the RS (Russia Segment) in automatic mode.  A number of deactivations/reactivations are scheduled tomorrow.       [Objective of the experiment is the automatic retranslation of time tag (pre-planned executable) packets from ground stations.  SHADOW (or ECLIPSE), sponsored by Roskosmos and its leading Moscow research organization TSNIIMASH (Central Research Institute of Machine Building), employs VHF amateur radio (ham) operators around the globe (via ARISS/Amateur Radio on ISS) to help in observing refraction/scattering effects in artificial plasmas using the method of RF (radio frequency) sounding in space experiments under different geophysical conditions.]
 
At ~8:15am EST, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~10:15am, Anatoly &amp; Anton supported a Russian PAO TV downlink, transmitting their greetings to four different events: (1) to “Around The World” magazine on its 150 year anniversary, (2) to the participants of the Russian Polar Sailboat Expedition, (3) to the citizens of Gagarin, and (4) on the commissioning of Stan-5000 Steel Complex (MKS) of the Objedinennaia Metallurgicheskaia Kompania (OMK) (United Steel Company) in the Nizhny Novgorod region with participation of Russian cosmonauts.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2) and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2).
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for monitoring of the Gulf of Mexico, Fuego volcano in Guatemala, species survey of the Andes, Sangay volcano, Volcano Huascaran, Vulcan Cordon-Kaul, Vulcan Hudson, Viedma Glacier, Glacier Upsala, and Glacier Chico,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-east Atlantic, South-East Pacific, and the south-west Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l1 level1 lfo1">Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 

