
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K):  The ARED-K acquisition unit was deployed to allow verification and troubleshooting of data pathways needed to support experiment operations. Resistive exercise is used as a countermeasure to musculoskeletal deconditioning in microgravity and currently ISS crews perform resistive exercise using ARED. However, a major unknown is the internal bone and muscle forces developed during exercise in microgravity. In addition, squat and deadlift resistance exercise loads used in flight have to be increased to account for the loss of body weight in microgravity and it is unknown how the level of body weight replacement (BWR) affects bone and muscle loads. The ARED Kinematics investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the space station.
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings (Antimicrobial Coatings): The crew performed a routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS.  These placards will remain deployed for approximately four months and will be touched regularly by the crew as part of the investigation. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies.
Cardiobreath: The crew donned the Bio-Monitor sensor garment, performed the appropriate calibrations, and participated in an exercise science session. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
JAXA-All Solid-State Li-ion Battery (J-AS-Lib): The Space AS-Lib experiment hardware was removed from the EFU-2 and prepared for return on SpX-29. The Space AS-Lib experiment demonstrates operation of a Lithium-ion secondary battery capable of safe, stable operation under extreme temperatures and in a vacuum environment. The battery uses solid, inorganic and flame-retardant materials and does not leak liquid, making it safer and more reliable. A successful demonstration of this new technology could expand its use in space as well as in the automotive and aerospace markets on the ground.
JAXA-Exposed Experiment Bracket (J-ExBAS) Attached on the (IVA)-replaceable Small Exposed Experiment Platform (i-SEEP):  ExBAS was attached to EFU-2 to prepare it for deployment in the external environment. ExBAS is support hardware that provides a means of exposing a variety of experiments to the space environment. ExBAS attaches to the Small Payload Support Equipment (SPySE) on the i-SEEP.
Space Age: The crew performed a BioCell media exchange in support of the ongoing investigation. Cell culture media contains nutrients and a pH buffer to sustain cells, and needs to be exchanged periodically as the nutrients are used up and waste products accumulate. Many changes to the human body seen in microgravity resemble those associated with aging on Earth. Aging-like changes to human immune cells are reversed after return to Earth. Tissue Engineered Liver Immune Chips in Microgravity as a Novel Platform to Study the Effect of Aged Immune Cells on Behavior and Regenerative Capacity of Liver Stem Cells (Space AGE) studies how microgravity-induced aging-like changes in immune cells affect the regenerative capabilities of liver cells and their postflight recovery. Results could improve understanding of the biology of aging and its effects on disease mechanisms.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): Today, the Pre-Treat Tank was R&Red as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC and water reclamation activities.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Air Quality Monitor (AQM) Deploy: Today, as part of regular maintenance the crew deployed an AQM and its supporting hardware into the US Lab. This is done periodically to ensure that there is both sufficient air flow as well as good air quality coming out of the vents on the ISS.
SpaceX-29 Urine Tank Capacity Test: Today, following the successful troubleshooting activities performed yesterday, the crew continued with the SpaceX-29 Urine Tank Capacity Test objectives. In support of this test the crew also degassed an Iodinated Contingency Water Container (CWC-I). With two test sessions today, the crew is scheduled to complete the final test session on Friday November 24th. The goal of this test is to find the exact maximum capacity of the Crew Dragon urine tank to help in increasing the amount of time the toilet is available to the crew while in free flight.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Hydrogen Sensor Tech Demo (H2ST) Drift Check: Today the crew performed a drift check on the H2ST located in the US Lab attached to the front of the Oxygen Generation System (OGS). The purpose of this test is to check that the H2ST is providing accurate hydrogen quantity readings of the oxygen generated by the OGS. This is accomplished by running dry air with a known quantity of hydrogen through the sensor.
