
Device for the study of Critical Liquids and Crystallization High Temperature Insert-Reflight (DECLIC-HTI-R) Installation: Today the crew installed and connected the Electronics Locker and Experiment locker cables for the DECLIC facility, before installing the HTI-R experiment insert. During operations, 400 milliliters of water leaked during the quick disconnect connection, but connecting the cables in reverse order proved to resolve the problem and the DECLIC-HTI-R was activated successfully. There was no JEM impact to the water leak. DECLIC is an apparatus developed by CNES for a NASA Express rack to support the study of material growth and the behavior of liquids near their critical point. It provides all subsystems required to operate an experiment dedicated insert installed on an optical bench. HTI is one of the modules that have been developed for DECLIC. The science of HTI is based on the analysis of optical and thermal properties of H20 near the critical points. HTI is intended to enable the study of near-critical water, and later of other super-critical fluids. It is installed on orbit in the Experiment Locker of the DECLIC instrument. It provides the environment and stimuli (quench, temperature gradient, heat pulse, optical observations) for the cell containing the sample under study. The mechanical part accommodating the fluid cell is called SCU (Sample Cell Unit). 
Marangoni Deformation 30 Surf Removal: Following the successful run of Dynamic Surf/Marangoni Deformation, today the crew removed the Marangoni experiment from the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) within the Ryutai Rack. The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments that Marangoni convection driven by the presence of surface tension gradient as produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. Fluid convection observations of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other within the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF). By observing and understanding how such fluids move researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity, and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.
Sarcolab-3: Today the crew completed the setup phase of the joint-NASA-ESA-Russia Sarcolab experiment, by deploying and configuring the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) in the Columbus module. Tomorrow’s activities will be the beginning of the three day operations phase of the experiment. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus, or calf muscle, where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure. 
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: This morning, a crewmember conducted the first run of Biochemistry Profile and Repository and the second session of Marrow urine collections.  The shared samples were placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for storage and return on a future flight. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Robotic External Leak Locator (RELL) Operations:  In preparation for RELL operations the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm #2 ORU Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM) was powered up while grasped to Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) 2.  After power up, the payload status came up in an unexpected configuration as reported in telemetry.  The OTCM showed captured and the Payload status showed Unloaded.  Since SPDM Arm 2 was holding RMCT 2 the Payload Status should have shown Secured.  Today’s operations were performed using a new software version.  The ground teams performed some non-evasive troubleshooting in attempt correct the issue with no success.  The teams agreed to stand down and retract the RELL back into the JEM Airlock (JEMAL). RELL will remain in the JEMAL until teams determine the go forward plan.

