
Circadian Rhythms:  On Friday, Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata was unable to complete his first 36 hour Circadian Rhythms session because of an issue with the Thermolab Control Unit.  Ground teams are investigating.
4K Camera Checkout:  Wakata continued the checkout of JAXA’s 4K camera in the Cupola with remote setting for the camera and verification of auto shot capability.  The checkout was performed in preparation for JAXA’s 4K live PAO event scheduled for December 4,, 2013. During that event, video images from the Cupola of the ISON Comet will be captured using the 4K Ultra High Definition System.
Body Measures: Wakata, with operator assistance from FE-3 Hopkins, set up cameras and cabin video, performed body marker instrumentation, collected calibration and body pose photos and circumference measurements.  It is anticipated that body measurements will change due to microgravity and fluid shifts. The goal of this study is to gather preliminary data to better understand the magnitude and variability of these changes. This data is important to be able to determine the changes that may occur during long-duration space flight and to be able to apply the changes to suit fit, suit sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time for altering or adjusting their suits, workstation, etc. to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Biological Experiment Laboratory (Biolab) Commissioning Day 1:  FE-5 Mastracchio performed the first of four days of crew activities to support commissioning of ESA’s Biolab facility in the Columbus module.  The activities performed today was primarily to prepare the facility for testing over the next two weeks.  He assembled the Experiment Container for Triplelux, (the next planned experiment), inserted a tape to record video from the Biolab Microscope, installed an insert for the rack‘s Automatic Ambient Stowage (AAS) compartment containing several syringes that will be manipulated from the ground using Biolab‘s Handling Mechanism, and installed an insert and insulation for the the Automatic Temperature Controlled Stowage (ATCS) compartment.  BioLab is a multiuser research facility used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab will allow scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Node 2 Joint Station LAN (JSL) Wire Harnesses: Hopkins installed two new JSL wire harnesses which connect the Node 2 Nadir bulkhead to the Node 2 ISL Router. The new cables will provide Ethernet connectivity to Visiting Vehicles berthed to the nadir port.  SpaceX-3, currently scheduled for February of next year, will be the first to utilize this connection for routing Dragon Trunk video through the JSL.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Leak Troubleshooting: The ITCS was transitioned to dual loop on November 12th in an attempt to locate a small leak in the system.  The leak rate decreased after the transition.  This morning, the crew reported residue on an ITCS sample adapter, indicating that as the possible leak source.  An additional inspection was performed and determined that the valve on the adapter was not fully closed.  The Crew subsequently closed the valve and the ITCS loop was transitioned back to Single-Loop Low Temperature configuration. Ground teams will be trending leak rates over the next several days.
Progress 53P Launch: 53P launched nominally today at 2:53pm CST and has achieved orbital insertion after nominal ascent.  All appendages were deployed successfully. The Progress is scheduled to perform a fly-by of the ISS with its closest approach (1.6km) on Wednesday, 27 November at 3:53pm CST. Docking is scheduled to occur on Friday, November 29th at 4:28pm CST.

