
Rodent Research 6 (RR-6):  During the installation of four Rodent Habitats yesterday, the crew noticed a leak on the outside of the first two habitats. The crew successfully installed the third and fourth habitats, but were instructed to temporarily stow the first two habitats until ground teams could develop a forward plan.  Earlier today, the crew cleaned the contamination from the outside of the habitats and further inspected the inside of both habitats.  After confirming that no contamination was inside of the affected habitats, the habitats were deemed safe and successfully installed in the EXPRESS Rack by the crew.  All four habitats will be used to support the upcoming RR-6 investigation arriving on SpaceX-13. 
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Marrow, and Repository): A 51S crewmember conducted his return minus 15 day (R-15) breath and ambient air, blood, and urine sample collections to support the Biochemical Profile, Marrow, and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.

Circadian Rhythms:  Today a crewmember instrumented himself with Thermolab Double Sensors and mounted the Thermolab Unit to his belt, and began 36 hours of monitoring for the Circadian Rhythm investigation.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Camera Robot: The crew set up and activated the JEM Camera Robot before assisting ground teams with the 5th flight checkout activity. This device is a free-flying camera robot that provides real time video downlink and photographs. It is expected to reduce the crew time requirements to support video recording of activities, especially at the blind spot of existing JEM internal cameras.  
Zero Boil-Off Tank Particle Injection: The crew injected Digital Particle Imaging Velocimetry (DPIV) particles into the test section for an imaging test. Rocket fuel, spacecraft heating and cooling systems, and sensitive scientific instruments rely on very cold cryogenic fluids. Heat from the environment around cryogenic tanks can cause their pressures to rise, which requires dumping or “boiling off” fluid to release the excess pressure, or actively cooling the tanks in some way. ZBOT uses an experimental fluid to test active heat removal and forced jet mixing as alternative means for controlling tank pressure for volatile fluids.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Configuration for Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew removed and replaced a CIR manifold #2 bottle and set the CIR valve timers on the front of the optics bench to limit the amount of fuel and oxygen in the CIR Combustion Chamber. The ACME investigation is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the CIR. ACME’s primary goal is to improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
NanoRacks Vuze (One Strange Rock) Camera Handheld Operations in the Cupola: The crew used the NanoRack Vuze camera to record 3-Dimensional 360-degree videos inside of the ISS.  The crew used the handheld camera in the Cupola to capture long corridor footage to give the viewer a 3D perspective of floating through the ISS. National Geographic Channel–Virtual Reality Educational Video for Television Series–“One Strange Rock” (One Strange Rock Virtual Reality) is a 10-part series that transports a virtual reality camera to the ISS for recording of a National Geographic special on the Earth as a natural life-support system. Crew aboard the ISS record a series of virtual reality pieces for incorporation into a larger documentary about natural history and the solar system. Each episode features a different crewmember and addresses different topics using next generation virtual reality technology to raise awareness about the Earth system and the space program.
Meteor Grating Configuration and Hard Drive Exchange: The crew removed and replaced the hard drive and changed diffraction gratings in the Meteor camera located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) payload volume. The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument with the primary purpose of observing meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers have been identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.  
Sabatier Removal for Return:  Today, the crew returned the OGS Rack Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) flow to the pre-Sabatier configuration and functionality.  The Sabatier unit will be returned on SpaceX-13 in January for refurbishment. 
Dragon Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT): In preparation for SpX-13 berthing currently scheduled for December 10th, the crew completed Robotics training consisting of a simulated 30 meter approach, two Capture Point hold runs and 2-meter runs.
67P Reboost:  Today, ground controllers commanded a reboost of the ISS using engines on 67Progress.  This was a nominally planned reboost and configured the station’s orbit for SpaceX-13 arrival and the 51S/53S crew rotation.
Robotics operations:  Last night, ground controllers performed steps to check out the Force Moment Sensor (FMS) on Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM).  Due to the previous night’s anomaly, the grasping task was not attempted, but all other tasks were completed successfully.
Cygnus cargo operations:  The crew has continued cargo operations to fill the OA-8 Cygnus capsule with disposal cargo.  A total of 72 hours 15 minutes have been spent on cargo operations so far this mission.  It is estimated that slightly over one hour of cargo operations remain.

