
84P Undocking: Last night, the Russian cargo vehicle, 84 Progress (84P), undocked from the ISS MRM-2 Zenith port at 1:55 AM CT. The deorbit burn occurred at approximately 5:02 AM CT followed by atmospheric entry and destruction. Progress telemetry was lost at approximately 5:37 AM CT and burn up occurred shortly thereafter.
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device – Kinematics (ARED-K): ARED-K Camera 2 was installed in Node 3 and the Acquisition Unit was activated. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
Bio-Monitor: The Bio-Monitor wearable hardware was changed out as part of the 48-hour data collection session. The new garment was found to be faulty, so the crew doffed the new garment and re-donned an older garment to continue data collection. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The Mobil-O-Graph Unit was donned and connected to the Columbus Payload Laptop and the EPM Virtual Machine in order to initiate a 13-hour data collection session. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The CIR was prepared for performing the first part of the Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) Calibration in preparation for SoFIE operations. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
CLINGERS: New software was uploaded to the Clinger unit (2) in preparation for Astrobee free flyer operations. Flight Tech Demo of Docking/Undocking CubeSats Inside ISS (CLINGERS) uses the ISS’s Astrobee robots to demonstrate an adaptor for docking and close approach sensing to connect both active and passive objects in space. These are critical functions to enable applications such as satellite servicing, orbital refueling, spacecraft repair and upgrade, and in-orbit manufacturing.
Space AGE: Media was exchanged in each Habitat (A, B, C) and placed back into SABL-3. Many changes to the human body seen in microgravity resemble those associated with aging on Earth. Aging-like changes to human immune cells are reversed after return to Earth. Tissue Engineered Liver Immune Chips in Microgravity as a Novel Platform to Study the Effect of Aged Immune Cells on Behavior and Regenerative Capacity of Liver Stem Cells (Space AGE) studies how microgravity-induced aging-like changes in immune cells affect the regenerative capabilities of liver cells and their postflight recovery. Results could improve understanding of the biology of aging and its effects on disease mechanisms
Space Health: Crew completed a Space Health Questionnaire. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system on the Artemis analytical platform for future space missions is being evaluated. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool during long range missions.
Systems:
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies to and from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Maintenance Canister Removal and Return to Ground Sampling: The previously installed ITCS Maintenance canister was removed from the JEM after antimicrobial agent Ortho Phthaladehyde (OPA) was fully dispersed throughout the JEM ITCS.  Photo documentation and ITCS fluid samples were taken for ground specialists to review.  These samples will return on SpX-29.  This activity was done as part of routine In-flight Maintenance (IFM).  
Emergency Simulation On-Board Training (OBT): Today, the crew participated in a training exercise for ISS rapid depressurization and fire emergency scenarios. The emergency training involved crew and ground teams working together to practice communication and coordination while the crew physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of equipment and interfaces. A post-simulation crew conference took place to discuss and evaluate the crew/ground control responses during the training event.
Four Bed CO2 Scrubber (4BCO2) Restow: The crew restowed tools and replacement parts from the attempted 4BCO2 Remove and Replace (R&R) activity yesterday.  The crew will unstow this equipment and reattempt this R&R at a later date.  4BCO2 Scrubber demonstrates a technology for removing carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation. A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure, and this technology is a step toward that goal.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Sample Analysis: The crew completed post-processing analysis of the Coliform detection bags. The water samples were acquired on Monday and allowed to incubate to check for the presence of Coliform bacteria. Following the incubation period, the crew visually analyzed the Coliform detection bags and recorded the results. Visual confirmation must be performed within 40-48 hours of the initial sample collection. 
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap:  Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
