
At Home in Space (AHIS):  The crew completed an AHIS questionnaire this morning.  This Canadian Space Agency investigation assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space also uses questionnaires to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth. 
Crystallization of Leucine-Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2) Under Microgravity Conditions-2 (CASIS PCG 16):  The crew set up PCG-16 experiment hardware on the Maintenance Work Area and used a pipette to fill PCG Card Micro-G card wells. CASIS PCG 16 evaluates growth of Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) protein crystals in microgravity. LRRK2 is implicated in Parkinson’s disease, but crystals of the protein grown on Earth are too small and compact to study. Detailed analysis of larger, space-grown crystals can define the protein’s exact shape and morphology and help scientists better understand the disease’s pathology.
Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA) Setup in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG):  Today the crew setup the SUBSA in the MSG. This will be used to support the design of Scalable Gas Separation Membranes via Synthesis Under Microgravity (Cemsica) investigation. Cemsica tests a novel approach of using particles of calcium-silicate (C-S) to synthesize nanoporous membranes (those with pores 100 nanometers or smaller) that can separate carbon dioxide molecules from air or other gases. Synthesizing the materials in microgravity may resolve existing challenges in membrane manufacturing and lead to development of lower-cost membranes with improved flux and high-temperature stability. SUBSA offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C.
JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Depressurization: This depressurization supports the NanoRacks External Platform Inserts (NREP) retrieval from the Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) 4 and relocation to the JEMAL which will occur tonight via ground commanding. NREP represents the first external commercial research capability for testing in support of scientific investigations, sensors, and electronic components in space.
MATISS:  The crew removed the Microbial Aerosol Tethering on Innovative Surfaces in the International Space Station (MATISS) Sample Holder Serial Number 6 and prepared it for return to the ground. The MATISS experiment investigates the antibacterial properties of materials in space for possible application in future spacecraft. MATISS is expected to provide additional insight into the mechanisms of attachment of biofilms in microgravity conditions.
Veg-03G Plant Check and Watering: The Veg-03 plants were checked for dryness, watered as necessary, and imagery was taken of the overall Veggie facility and individual plants. The current plan is to harvest the plants later this week. Veg-03G is currently in a ~28-day growth cycle, which began on 25-October for the Red Russian Kale and Dragoon Lettuce plants. The primary goal of the Veg-03 G/H/I testing is to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie hardware using leafy green vegetables as a test crops. 
SpaceX-16 (SpX-16) Dragon Pre-Pack:  In preparation for SpX-16 Dragon launch planned for December 4 and arrival to ISS on December 6, the crew started to pack items that will be returning to the ground.  

