
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings (Antimicrobial Coatings): The crew performed a routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS.  These placards will remain deployed for approximately four months and will be touched regularly by the crew as part of the investigation. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies.
Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion (BAC): The BioCell habitat was retrieved, and two 12-well BioCells were inoculated with experiment bacteria. This is the second inoculation for the ongoing experiment session. Polymicrobial Biofilm Growth and Control during Spaceflight (Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion) explores the formation under microgravity conditions of multi-species biofilms, which may behave differently from single-species biofilms. This investigation identifies the bacterial genes used during biofilm growth, examines whether these biofilms can corrode stainless steel, and evaluates the effectiveness of a silver-based disinfectant. The microorganisms in biofilms can become resistant to traditional cleaning chemicals, leading to contamination of water treatment systems, damage to equipment, and potential health risks to astronauts.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF):  The crew gained access to the interior of the BFF, and replaced the print tips, cleaning syringes, and test print cassette. This will allow BFF to prepare for upcoming science activities. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Cerebral Ageing: Microscopic observations were performed on each of the experiment BioCells. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space of cerebral organoids.  Cerebral organoids are 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain at the molecular and cellular level. Also included for analysis in this investigation are markers of cell stress, metabolism, and ageing in healthy control samples, and cerebral organoids with mutations that lead to accelerated ageing. With this investigation, the research team seeks to establish and validate a pipeline that can be used for experiments with human cells in future long-duration spaceflight.
Cosmic Multishield: The crew verified the LED lights on the Cosmic Multishield hardware were in the expected configuration, and then packed the hardware for return to the ground.  Multifunctional Shielding Polymer Demo (Cosmic Multishield) assesses the radiation shielding abilities of a hydrogen-rich polymer. The optimized polymer may be used in construction of spacecraft and satellites to help protect crew members or for shielding electronic components and devices.
Immunity Assay: Experiment hardware was gathered and the Kubik incubator was set up in preparation for next week’s science session. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
Nanoracks Mainframe Alpha (MFA): The crew gained access to NanoRacks MFA, removed Module-83 and Module-103, took photos of Module-103, and then inserted Module-103 into refrigerated cold stowage. Module-103 studies the growth characteristics of Edible Duckweed strains in micro gravity conditions.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew performed a VR Mental care experiment session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
SpaceX Crew Dragon Urine Tank Capacity Test: Today, the crew executed the final set of test objectives for the urine tank capacity test. Additionally, partial teardown of systems hardware was completed. The goal of this test was to find the exact maximum capacity of the Crew Dragon urine tank to help in increasing the amount of time the toilet is available to the crew while in free flight.
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
