
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): Cardiac Tissue Cassettes were inserted into the BFF and printing of cardiac cells was initiated. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Bio-Monitor: Bio-Monitor Wearable hardware was removed and data was downlinked completing a 48-hour data collection session. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Cerebral Ageing: Microscopy was performed on Bio Cells 13 and 14. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space on cerebral organoids, i.e., 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain, at the molecular and cellular level.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The Vascular Echo Mobil-O-Graph cuff was doffed and data was transferred for downlink, ending a 13-hour data collection. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
CLINGERS: The crew installed two Clingers units onto the two Astrobee Free Flyers and assisted the ground team to conduct free flyer docking maneuvers. Unfortunately, the uploaded software was not behaving correctly and the session had to be aborted. Ground teams will evaluate for a forward plan. Flight Tech Demo of Docking/Undocking CubeSats Inside ISS (CLINGERS) uses the ISS Astrobee robots to demonstrate an adaptor for docking and close approach sensing to connect both active and passive objects in space. These are critical functions to enable applications such as satellite servicing, orbital refueling, spacecraft repair and upgrade, and in-orbit manufacturing.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): ELF Cartridge A, holder 035 was removed and Cartridge 013 was installed. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the Kibo Module.
Melanized Microbes for Multiple Uses in Space (MELSP): BRIC Canisters C & D are removed from MERLIN and placed into Minus Eighty-degree Laboratory Freezer for the ISS 1 (MELFI-1). Melanized Microbes for Multiple Uses in Space (MELSP) investigates how microgravity and cosmic radiation alter microbial melanin production and the role that melanin plays in fungal adaptation to the space environment. Melanin may help protect organisms in space conditions by providing physical shielding and by scavenging free radicals. Synthesis and production of melanin in microgravity could lead to new variants with novel properties and inspire development of new protective materials that are renewable and biodegradable.
NanoRacks Module-9: The crew activated and deactivated Designated Mixture Tubes for Operations #3. NanoRacks Module-9 is a module containing a complement of Mixture Tubes. These Mixture Tubes each contain a separate experiment that can be activated and deactivated while in zero-G. Tubes are a low-cost, high-return science opportunity for students to send experiments to ISS and encompass a wide range of science/disciplines. Mixture Tubes are very popular with middle and high school science programs and have also been used by private company research, technical schools, and individual research.
Plant Habitat: CO2 Bottle replacements was performed as part of preparation for Plant Habitat-06 operations. The Advanced Plant Habitat (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that is used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack and one powered International Subrack Interface Standard (ISIS) drawer, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Rhodium Biomanufacturing 02: Ambient Rhodium Microgravity Bioprospecting-2 Science Chambers S/Ns 0011-0020 were prepared and inserted into MELFI-2. Efficient and Resilient Biomanufacturing in Variable Gravity – Mission 2 (Rhodium Biomanufacturing 02) continues work to examine how microgravity affects biomanufacturing of therapeutics and nutraceuticals from bacteria and yeast. Microgravity is known to cause changes in cell growth and morphology and metabolic activity in microbes, which can affect biomanufacturing performance. Results could advance concepts of in-orbit servicing, assembly, and biomanufacturing of materials in space for use on future missions.
Nucleic Acid Extraction System (µTitan): Velcro bars were assembled and inserted along with bungees and Glovebox USB Camera into the LSG Work Volume. µTitan is an instrument used to isolate DNA from various samples in microgravity. Methods exist for sequencing DNA on the ISS, but no methods currently exist to extract DNA from a sample in space or the ISS. This technology could provide a tool for crew members on the space station to sequence DNA to answer health-related questions and identify microbial content in samples.
Systems:
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Survey of SpX-29: Robotics Ground Controllers are surveying the Thermal Protection System (TPS) of SpX-29 Cargo Dragon using the MSS. The survey began yesterday morning and is planned to conclude this evening. TPS inspections are performed on returning vehicles prior to undock from the ISS to ensure the vehicle is in a good configuration for re-entry. 
Photo/TV Port ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) and Solar Array Wing (SAW) Survey Imagery: Micro Meteroid and Orbital Debris (MMOD) present a potential risk to the solar arrays.  In order to determine current physical condition of SAW and IROSA structures, the crew took HD photos of IROSA 4A and SAW 2B and 4A. The SAWs are the main power generating systems of the ISS, producing electrical power from solar energy. IROSAs are new arrays being installed on the already existing SAWs. They provide additional power to station as well as setup ISS for future commercial modules
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies to and from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December.
ISS EveryWear (EVW) Medication and Nutrition Tracking: The crew recorded daily medication intake. EVW is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general.
