
Cemsica sample exchange: Today the crew removed the processed first Cemsica science cartridge from the SUBSA facility and inserted the second science cartridge.  Cemsica tests a novel approach of using particles of calcium-silicate (C-S) to synthesize nanoporous membranes (those with pores 100 nanometers or smaller) that can separate carbon dioxide molecules from air or other gases. Synthesizing the materials in microgravity may resolve existing challenges in membrane manufacturing and lead to development of lower-cost membranes with improved flux and high-temperature stability. SUBSA offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C.
Crystallization of LRRK2 Under Microgravity Conditions-2 (CASIS PCG-16) microscope observations: The crew performed microscope observation on the PCG-16 Card that was loaded earlier this week.  CASIS PCG-16 evaluates growth of Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) protein crystals in microgravity. LRRK2 is implicated in Parkinson’s disease, but crystals of the protein grown on Earth are too small and compact to study. Detailed analysis of larger, space-grown crystals can define the protein’s exact shape and morphology and help scientists better understand the disease’s pathology. 
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) – Multi-use Variable-g Processing Facility (MVP Cell-05) insert 2: The crew removed the sample modules from MVP and stowed them for return. This completed run 2 of 3 total for the investigation.  MVP Cell-05 investigates the complex process of cement solidification at gravity levels of interest (lunar, Mars and 0.7-g).  The MVP facility is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.  It includes internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity. 
NanoRacks External Platform Inserts (NREP) transfer to Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) 4: The NREP, loaded with the newly-installed sortie #4 science, was passed through the JEM airlock with the intent to be transferred to its external Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) 4 location.  However, during the extension of the slide table, an object was seen floating away.  The object is currently believed to be a missing tool that was used during the NREP operations inside the ISS pressurized volume.  The slide table with NREP was subsequently retracted back into the JEM airlock and transfer of the NREP to EFU 4 is on hold while the teams discuss a forward plan.  NREP sortie #4 consists of the Hyperspectral Earth Imaging System Trial (HEIST) investigation.  HEIST a compact hyperspectral sensor system for commercial Earth observation.  The NREP represents the first external commercial research capability for testing in support of scientific investigations, sensors, and electronic components in space.
SpaceX-16 Dragon On-Board Training: The crew utilized the Robotic Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) to practice procedures that will be used to capture the SpX-16 Dragon next week.  The crew ran a couple of simulations, including 30-meter approach, Capture Point (CP)-hold and 2-meters, during this training session.
COTS UHF Communications Unit (CUCU) and the Crew Command Panel (CCP) Checkout:  Earlier today, ground teams successfully checked out the CUCU and CCP. The checkouts were nominal and the CUCU and CCP are ready to support the upcoming SpX-16 mission

