
Probiotics Operations: Today a crewmember conducted the second half of the third sampling phase for the JAXA Probiotic investigation that began on GMT 331 with fecal sample collections. Today’s activities included saliva sample collections and a questionnaire. Some species of harmful bacteria such as Salmonella grow stronger and more virulent in the microgravity environment of space. At the same time, the human immune system is weaker in space, leading to increased health risks. The objective of the Probiotics investigation is to study the impact of continuous consumption of probiotics on immune function and intestinal microbiota in astronauts under closed microgravity environment This investigation studies the effects of beneficial bacteria (Probiotics) to improve crew members’ intestinal microbiota as well as their immune function on long-duration space missions.
TangoLab-1 Transfer from Cygnus (OA-8):  After completing the short demonstration of TangoLab-1 operations in Cygnus that began on GMT 326 last week, today the crew powered down and removed TangoLab-1 from Cygnus and returned the facility back to EXPRESS Rack 4. The facility will be powered back up in ER4 and returned to its nominal capability. TangoLab-1 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Plant Habitat Sound Level Meter (SLM) Measurements: The crew performed ten Plant Habitat acoustic measurement sets with varying Environmental Control System (ECS) fan speeds between each measurement set. The fan speeds were controlled via ground command. The data from the measurements will be used to assess the environmental factors when the Plant Habitat facility is used in the JEM. The Advanced Plant Habitat Facility (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that will be used to conduct plant bioscience research on the International Space Station (ISS). It occupies the lower half of the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) rack and two International Subrack Interface Standard (ISIS) drawers, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber. 
NeuroMapping: Today two 52S crewmembers set up the NeuroMapping hardware and performed their Flight Day 90 tests in “strapped in” and “free floating” body configurations. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, or multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile and Repository): A 51S crewmember conducted his return minus 15 Day (R-15) blood, and urine sample collections to support the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: The crew captured images and video footage of the Namib Desert, the Mediterranean at Night, Fishing Boats, along the Gulf of Thailand, and Southern Tip of India.   The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Dragon OBT:  In preparation for the upcoming arrival of SpaceX-13 Dragon, the crew performed training of the offset grapple case for Dragon capture.  The crew performed a series of onboard training (OBT) sessions to maintain proficiency prior to a vehicle arrival. 
Cygnus cargo operations:  Disposal cargo loading operations continued on the OA-8 Cygnus vehicle.  Today, the crew removed TangoLab-1, and loaded disposal cargo on the vehicle.  Cargo loading will continue until hatch closure, which is planned for Tuesday, December 5th.

