
Cygnus Offset Grapple On-Board Training (OBT):  In preparation for Cygnus arrival planned for December 6th, the USOS crew practiced vehicle captures with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) which was located at the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) High Hover position in preparation for the training. Following the training, the crew participated in a conference with ground teams.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Yui continued packing his personal items in preparation for his return to Earth scheduled for December 11th.
 
Microbiome:  For his Return Minus 14 day Microbiome session, Lindgren collected body samples yesterday and today.  He answered survey questionnaires yesterday and Saturday and collected surface samples today.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Veggie (Veg-01):  Kelly refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water on Saturday.  The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Habitability:  Kelly documented his recent observations related to human factors and habitability for the Habitability investigation.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today after waking. The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning:  Yui cleaned his deck CQ including intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.
 

