
SpaceX (SpX)-16 Launch Status:  SpX-16 launch attempt was delayed from today’s opportunity due to a cargo issue. The next launch attempt is December 5 in order to accommodate replacement of late load cargo. Liftoff on December 5 is planned for 12:16 PM CT with rendezvous and capture planned for Saturday, December 8. Should SpX-16 still be on the pad after December 5, the next launch opportunity will be December 7.
Behavioral Core Measures:  Today crewmembers completed journal questionnaires for the Behavioral Core Measures study. Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) examines an integrated, standardized suite of measurements for its ability to rapidly and reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight.
Standard Measures: Today crewmembers filled out questionnaires for the Standard Measures study. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.
VECTION (Effect of Long Duration Hypogravity on the Perception of Self-Motion): Today a crewmember performed Z-book configuration steps for the Vection software as well as verification of the Oculus Rift virtual Reality headset and trackball components. The objective of The Effect of Long Duration Hypogravity on the Perception of Self-Motion (VECTION) study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA): Today a crewmember stowed the SUBSA hardware. The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters.
Cemsica (Design of Scalable Gas Separation Membranes via Synthesis Under Microgravity): Today the crew removed the processed 4th Cemsica science cartridge from theSolidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA) facility and stowed the sample for return. Cemsica tests a novel approach of using particles of calcium-silicate (C-S) to synthesize nanoporous membranes (those with pores 100 nanometers or smaller) that can separate carbon dioxide molecules from air or other gases. Synthesizing the materials in microgravity may resolve existing challenges in membrane manufacturing and lead to development of lower-cost membranes with improved flux and high-temperature stability. 
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review:  With the arrival of 57S, all crewmembers participated in an Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review. Items of discussion included crew accountability, access to escape vehicles, and ISS Commander responsibilities. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is imperative each crewmember is fully familiar with the various emergency procedures and strategies in place.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LVCG) Water Fill:  In preparation for potential ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA), the crew filled two LCVGs with water utilizing EMU 3004 water tanks. In addition, they installed a Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly REBA onto EMU 3003.

