
86 Progress (86P) Docking: Following the completion of a 34-orbit rendezvous, 86P successfully docked to the MRM-2 Zenith port on Sunday morning at 5:25 AM CT. The crew then performed leak checks, opened hatches, and began unloading cargo. Carrying food, fuel, and supplies, 86P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome on Friday, December 1st at 3:25 AM CT.
Payloads:
Astro Bit Public Affairs Office (PAO): The Astro Bit hardware was unstowed, batteries were inserted, and a functional check was performed in preparation of a PAO event. The hardware was stowed after the event. As part of Astro Bit initiative, students in Denmark and the other Scandinavian countries design an experiment that can also be repeated aboard the ISS with an interesting scientific outcome. The students program their own British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) micro: bit microcontrollers to implement their experiment and submit the resulting code, while being permitted to use a number of ISS common items, which are easily available on the space station as part of the experiment.
Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion: Well BioCells (12) were inoculated inside the LSG. Polymicrobial Biofilm Growth and Control during Spaceflight (Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion) explores the formation under microgravity conditions of multi-species biofilms, which may behave differently from single-species biofilms. This investigation identifies the bacterial genes used during biofilm growth, examines whether these biofilms can corrode stainless steel, and evaluates the effectiveness of a silver-based disinfectant. The microorganisms in biofilms can become resistant to traditional cleaning chemicals, leading to contamination of water treatment systems, damage to equipment, and potential health risks to astronauts. 
Bio-Monitor: The crew assembled and donned the Bio-Monitor wearable hardware for a 48-hour recording session. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The Cold Atom Lab Science Module 3 was stowed for return on SpX-29. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham contact was made with Carl-Maria-von-Weber-Schule Eutin and Gymnasium in Loekamp, Eutin, and Marl, Germany. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Life Science Glovebox (LSG): The Glovebox USB Camera was disconnected and stowed. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in LSG simultaneously.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM): SCEM power and data cables were reconnected. The SCEM is designed to investigate the oxygen concentration required to sustain a flame over solid fuels  It is also possible to obtain the limiting electric current caused by self-ignition of the insulated wires due to short-circuit. Through studies using SCEM, combustion characteristics of solid materials in the microgravity environment where no buoyancy-induced convection occurs will be identified, as well as the effect of gravity on the combustion limit of solid materials.
Transparent Alloys: The Transparent Alloys Cartridge P11 connector was exchanged with the Protection Cover P11 connector in order to override a malfunctioning microswitch. The cartridge and hardware was then removed from the Microgravity Science Glovebox and stowed. This completes the SEBA3: Run_V007 experiment run. Transparent Alloys consists of numerous experiments to study various growth and solidification processes in alloys.
Systems:
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Transition: Ground teams implemented new algorithms to update protection of uplinked Space Station commands.  The new encryption protocol is Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS)-certified and National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)-approved.  This transition is necessary after previous three-key Triple Data Encryption Standard (3DES) became outdated.  After the transition, ground teams successfully checked out commanding capabilities.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis and Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. 
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies to and from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Compound Specific Analyzer – Combustion Products (CSA-CP): Today, the crew replaced the battery packs in all CSA-CPs and calibrated the units. The CSA-CPs provide real-time readings following a combustion event and subsequent clean-up efforts. The CSA-CPs are also used for continuous monitoring of carbon monoxide levels in the ISS.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: Today, the crew performed several EVA operations.  A failed HD Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Camera Assembly (HECA) was removed to be returned on SpX-29.  EMU Hard Upper Torso (HUT) S/N 2036 was boxed up and staged for return on SpX-29. EMU Lower Torso Assembly (LTA) S/N 2098 was disassembled, packed for return, and then replaced with the recently launched LTA S/N 2102.
