
65 Progress (65P) Launch:  65P launched from the Baikonur, Kazakhstan Cosmodrome today at 8:51 am CST.  Telemetry indicated that the 3rd stage separation occurred a little more than 2 minutes early.  Telemetry over Russian Ground Sites (RGS) was lost earlier than expected.  Communication with the vehicle was never reacquired with the vehicle.  The 65P vehicle and all cargo is considered lost.  A Russian State Commission will convene to investigate the anomaly. 
Robotic External Leak Locator (RELL) Operations: Today, RELL checkout and demonstration continues with scans of the Port 1 Truss (P1) Truss Radiator Beam Valve Modules (RBVMs), and the P1 Ammonia (NH3). RELL is an instrumentation package that is maneuvered externally by the SSRMS/SPDM to detect local pressure variations to help in locating a leak. For this demonstration, a predetermined scan/survey procedure will be executed that characterized the ISS environment and scans various ISS elements containing ammonia lines and systems. Planned operations later this week will also attempt to identify the source of the “white flakes” that have been noticed on downlink video.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites Tether Demonstration (SPHERES Tether Demo): The crew conducted a conference with the ground team then setup and checkout the SPHERES, the work area in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM), and the EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Laptop Computer (ELC) prior to testing. The crew loaded the test specific software to the satellites and executed the first of two test sessions with ground support teams. The goal of the SPHERES Tether Demo is to study the dynamics of a tethered capture object and a “space tug” chase vehicle, improving computer programs and modeling needed for removing space debris as well as capturing scientific samples from other planets.
Sarcolab-3 Deconfigure and Stow: After the successful completion of the Flight Day (FD) 5-10 sessions on Tuesday and Wednesday, the crew deconfigured and stowed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES). Today, the crew verified and downlinked the data and stowed the remaining ancillary Sarcolab-3 hardware. The next session will be in the FD 30-60 window. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus, or calf muscle, where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure. 
Aerosol Sampler: The crew closed the drawers on the passive samplers located in the various USOS modules. The Aerosol Sampling Experiment (Aerosol Sampler) collects airborne particles in the ISS cabin air, and is returned to Earth so scientists can study the particles with powerful microscopes. For this experiment, particles collected on the cabin air samples are analyzed using a variety of microscopic techniques including: light microscopy, Raman spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, computer controlled scanning electron microscopy; and scanning transmission electron microscopy.
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Setup: The crew configured the PBRE hardware components and connected the hoses and cables within the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). This module is scheduled to run for approximately three weeks in the MSG. PBRE studies the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used widely in chemical engineering as a means to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil, etc.). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers, strippers, etc. in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space.

