
Ocular Health:  Crewmembers Yui and Lindgren completed vision tests, tonometry tests, and blood pressure measurements as part of their Flight Day 120 Ocular Health testing.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risks of microgravity-induced visual impairment and increased intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Cognition:  Yui  performed his Return minus 10 day session of the Cognition experiment later today.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Window Observation Research Facility (WORF) Laptop Software Load:  Kelly supported the ongoing software updates to payload laptops by copying a software load to the WORF laptop.  These software updates include enhanced security with the Windows 7 operating system, new features and support for new capabilities.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today after waking.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Service Module (SM) Water Sample Collection:  Kelly obtained samples from Service Module potable water dispensers today.  Some of the samples will undergo microbial analysis onboard ISS and others will be prepared for return to the ground for post-flight analysis.
 
Soyuz 43 (43S) Prepack Transfer Operations:  Lindgren prepared and transferred US cargo that will be returning to the ground via 43S on December 11th.
 
Cygnus Attached Phase Training:  Kelly and Lindgren conducted onboard training in order to familiarize themselves with Cygnus hardware, stowage, and attached phase vehicle configuration.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Yui  continued to pack his personal items in preparation for his crews return to earth onboard 43S.
 

