
25th Anniversary of the ISS: Today marks the 25th anniversary of the USOS Unity node (Node 1) mating with the Russian Zarya module (FGB) marking the start of the ISS in orbit.  Designed and built by engineers thousands of miles apart and never joined together on Earth, the first two modules of the orbiting laboratory fit perfectly together when they met in space.  All seven members of the ISS crew commemorated the event during an interview with The ISS program Manager and the NASA associate administrator.
Payloads:
Bio-Monitor: Bio-Monitor Wearable hardware was removed and Data was downlinked completing a 48-hour data collection session. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The Blood Pressure Vascular Echo Mobil-O-Graph Cuff was doffed and the data was transferred to the ground completing a 13-hour session. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The calibration probe was reseated by the crew and the ground initiated the calibration sequence. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Four Bed Carbon Dioxide (4BCO2) Scrubber: CO2 effluent was sampled from the 4BCO2 Scrubber and stowed for return. 4BCO2 Scrubber demonstrates a technology for removing CO2 from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation. A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure, and this technology is a step toward that goal.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): The CO2 Incubator Controller was swapped out for a fresh unit. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. The SABL unit also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
Sleep in Orbit: Overnight data recording with earpiece EEG (electroencephalogram) hardware. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep In Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-EEG based sleep monitoring.
Space AGE: Media was exchanged for all sample collections of the Space AGE Bio Cells. Many changes to the human body seen in microgravity resemble those associated with aging on Earth. Aging-like changes to human immune cells are reversed after return to Earth. Tissue Engineered Liver Immune Chips in Microgravity as a Novel Platform to Study the Effect of Aged Immune Cells on Behavior and Regenerative Capacity of Liver Stem Cells (Space AGE) studies how microgravity-induced aging-like changes in immune cells affect the regenerative capabilities of liver cells and their postflight recovery. Results could improve understanding of the biology of aging and its effects on disease mechanisms
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor: The initial protective MCA (Major Constituent Analyzer) Plug was removed from the Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor-2 MCA inlet in preparation for Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor-2 first operations. The MCA inlet will allow atmospheric gasses to pass into the monitor facility. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor investigation demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph mass spectrometer instrument aboard the ISS to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement. The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The VR Mental Care session was completed and the hardware (VR controller, VR Anchor and ESA Power Bank) was charged up. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies to and from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December. 
Station Support Computer (SSC) Field Strip and Solid State Drive (SSD) removal: A field strip was performed on SSC 15 as part of troubleshooting efforts. The crew disconnected and reconnected all external connections to the laptop before removing the battery and SSD.  After SSD removal, the battery was replaced and the SSC booted up without issue.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: The crew completed a regular maintenance inspection to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition. The crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play, as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play. The crew also performed additional inspections for Sorbothane residue on Snubber Pins, the Snubber Pin position within the Snubber Cup, and all tape and witness markings on the T2 Thumbwheels, Snubber Jam Nuts, and Snubber Cup Housing. 
Surface Sampler Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis T+5: Previously taken air and surface samples were visually analyzed.  Last week, the crew took samples onboard ISS of the air and surfaces using media slides, swab tubes, and the MAS.  After the samples had incubated for 5 days, they were ready for inspection.  Future cleaning activities will be scheduled after ground teams assess analysis results. 
Handheld Mic (HHM) Replacement and Stowage: The crew replaced three HHMs in the JEM, Node 2, and Node 3 modules onboard the ISS. The three previous HHMs from those locations were stowed and staged for return on SpX-29.  The HHM in the JEM failed a checkout and will be replaced with one of the working old mics on a future date.
Emergency Mask Review On-Board Training (OBT): The crew reviewed on-board procedures and practiced don/purge techniques for Emergency Mask usage.  Practice was done using ‘Training only’ masks.  This OBT was performed in preparation for installing new retaining rings to mitigate a defect found in some on-board Emergency Masks. 
Node 3 O2 Trending Sensor Troubleshooting: Troubleshooting was performed on the Node 3 O2 Trending Sensor after it recently stopped sending data.  The ground team supported this activity while the crew traced and verified cable connections and health.  The crew found that one of the wires connecting to the O2 sensor was damaged, and will be removed and replaced at a later date.
