
Rodent Research-14 (RR-14): The crew completed cleaning and teardown of the Life Science Glovebag. Rodent Research–14, Microgravity as a Disruptor Of The 12-hour Circatidal Clock (RR-14), uses mice to test the hypothesis that disruptions in a microgravity environment to the circadian rhythm sleep/wake cycle will affect the body on a cellular and key organ level. The importance of this 12-hour clock has been established as a mechanism that controls stress-responsive pathways. The unique environment of the ISS provides an ideal setting to challenge this. In short, exposing cellular systems in mice to the stress of microgravity provides an opportunity to study the response of the 12-hour body clock from cellular adaptation and its effect(s) on organismal behavior.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew reviewed procedures for the upcoming BFF cassette installation operations. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand.
Systems:
SpX-19 Dragon Rendezvous Training: Today, the ISS crew completed Dragon Rendezvous Review On-board proficiency training that is designed to prepare the crew on the Dragon mission profile, the Dragon rendezvous crew procedures and the crew interface utilized for monitoring and commanding the Dragon spacecraft.  Currently, SpX-19 is scheduled to launch on December 4 and will arrive at the ISS on December 7.
AMS-02 Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Post Operations: Today, the ISS crew spent some time on the Post EVA recovery efforts including recharging the Li-Ion batteries for the Extravehicular Activity Mobility Units (EMU).  Additionally the EMU Metox canisters, used for metabolic CO2 removal, regeneration was initiated which is a baking process that removes the CO2  from saturated canisters. The crew also recharged the EMU suits with fresh water in preparation for the next EVA as well as participating in a Post EVA Debrief with ground support specialists.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today, the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) was maneuvered to a translate config and the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite 2 to Worksite 6. The SSRMS will be walked-off to Node 2 for the crew’s SSRMS Offset Grapple onboard training (OBT).  Later this afternoon, the MT will be translated back to Worksite 2 in preparation for SpaceX-19 arrival.

