
Payloads
Fiber Optic Production (FOP): The crew reviewed procedures and performed the setup of hardware in the Microgravity Science Glovebox. The Fiber Optic Production investigation creates optical fibers with high commercial value aboard the ISS using a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum called ZBLAN. It operates in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Extensive theoretical studies along with a limited number of experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity should exhibit far superior qualities to those produced on Earth. The resulting optical fiber from Fiber Optic Production is expected to help verify these studies and guide further engineering efforts to manufacture high value optical fiber in large volume aboard the ISS. 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L): The crew retrieved the CBEF Humidifier-2 from CBEF Incubator Unit (IU) Micro-G and refilled it with water and then re-installed the unit. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL) Sample Cartridge Assemblies (SCA) Batch-2b #13: The crew removed the MSL Furnace Calibration Cartridge and installed the new MSL Solidification and Quenching Furnace (SQF) Sample Cartridge in preparation of the next sample run. The Batch-2b of the MSL SCA Batch 2b-ESA serves two projects investigating how different phases organize in a structure when metallic alloys are solidified. The project Metastable Solidification of Composites (METCOMP) studies the phase formed by the reaction of the remaining liquid phase with an already formed solid, to form a second solid phase on cooling. For this purpose, Bronze (Copper-Tin Alloys) of different compositions will be processed. The other project, Solidification along a Eutectic path in Ternary Alloys (SETA), looks at how two phases that form together organize into lamellar, or fibre, structures when cooling Aluminium (Copper-Silver Alloys). Both projects will provide benchmark samples that will enable to test numerical models that aim to predict these structures.
Plant Habitat-02: The crew installed the Science Carrier #1 into the Plant Habitat Facility and performed a water refill. Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Burning Rate Emulator (BRE): The crew performed O2/N2 gas bottle changes in preparation for upcoming BRE runs. The BRE investigation is conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) on the ISS, as part of the Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) project. In this fire safety study, the flammability of solid and liquid materials is simulated by burning gaseous fuels under key conditions corresponding to the solid and liquid materials. This technique has been demonstrated for a wide variety of materials in normal-gravity and could provide an efficient way to screen and select fire-resistant materials for use in spacecraft, if the technique is similarly effective in microgravity.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for potential December EVAs. The crew inspected the Retractable Equipment Tether (RET) set, other hardware with integrated RETs, safety tethers, waist tethers, and D-ring extenders for suitability for use on upcoming US EVAs. Additionally, the crew performed a Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I) degassing procedure.
SpaceX-21 Cargo Operations Overview: The crew reviewed the SpaceX-21 cargo operations overview document to familiar themselves with the new Cargo Dragon stowage configuration and unloading choreography. The crew then participated in a conference with ground teams to further review operations and ask questions. SpaceX-21 will be the first Cargo Dragon flight to utilize the Cargo Dragon version 2 design. The first launch attempt for SpaceX-21 is on Saturday, December 5th.
Inflight Maintenance Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew cleaned and inspected a subset of open Node 1 hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surfaces, and crank handle mechanisms for FOD and damage.

