
SpaceX (SpX)-16 Mission:  At 6:21 AM CT, the ISS crew used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to successfully capture the SpX-16 Dragon vehicle. Capture was delayed from its originally planned time of 5:00AM CT due to an issue with the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite (TDRS) 41 Space to Ground Link Terminal (SGLT) at White Sands Test Facility, New Mexico.  Dragon capture was subsequently performed utilizing an alternate TDRS.  After capture, Ground Robotic Flight Controllers maneuvered the spacecraft to the pre-install position where they performed an inspection of the Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (PCBM).  Dragon was then berthed to the Node2 Nadir port at ~9:36 AM CT.  The crew is scheduled to complete vestibule pressurization, leak checks, vestibule outfitting, and CBM Control Panel Assembly (CPA) rotation later this afternoon in support of tomorrow morning’s ingress. 
Marrow:  Crewmembers performed a blood sample collection. Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Molecular Muscle: A crewmember performed preliminary checks on the Kubik incubator in preparation for Molecular Muscle experiment inserts. The Molecular Muscle investigation examines the molecular causes of muscle abnormalities during spaceflight in order to establish effective countermeasures.
Rodent Research-8 (RR-8): Today crewmembers participated in a conference to review animal transfer procedures. The RR-8 investigation utilizes mice flown aboard the ISS, and maintained on Earth, to investigate the physiology of aging in response to microgravity and the role of aging in the onset and progression of disease.
NanoRacks Module-9: Today a crewmember performed the on-board training for Module-9 operations. NanoRacks-NSL Satellites Ltd-Oil Bubbles is a student-designed investigation that explores whether microgravity affects this mixing phenomenon in space. Data from the investigation benefits materials research and future mixing methods in space.

