
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): On Saturday, the crew performed the Life Science Glovebox setup in preparation for rodent research operations. The Rodent Research -19 investigation examines the Preclinical Evaluation of a Broad Spectrum Myostatin Inhibitor to Prevent Muscle and Bone Loss Due to Disuse in rodent models.  Specifically, this study is gaining a better understanding of the potential benefits of targeting Myostatin (MSTN) and active signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): On Saturday, the crew transferred cells from previously stowed media tubes in cell kits to new media tubes using pipettes. The cell media tubes were then stowed into the MELFI (Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS) cold stowage facility. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS.  It also examines how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): On Saturday, the crew successfully printed three Tissue Cassettes into the BioFabrication Facility. This was the first time that BFF had successfully printed with three “bio-inks” and achieved a thickness of approximately 6mm, which is double of what has been accomplished on the ground.  After the print was completed, the crew cleaned out the print heads in preparation for another print on Sunday.  All printed samples were installed into the Advanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP), where they will be conditioned and later returned to ground for analysis. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand.
The ISS Experience: On Saturday, the crew recorded an Astronaut log. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Systems:
SpX-19 Capture and Berth:  Today, the ISS crew completed the robotic capture of the SpX-19 Dragon at approximately 04:00 CT using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).  This was followed by the berthing of the Dragon vehicle to the Node 2 Nadir port. Next, the ISS crew performed a Node 2 vestibule pressurization and leak check along with installing the power data jumper cables that are essential to Dragon activation.  Finally, the crew opened the hatch and ingressed Dragon. SpX-19 Dragon includes 2,617 kilograms of cargo carried up to the ISS.
Mobile Support System Operations: Last night (December 7), the Robotic Ground Controllers powered up Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) in the Hot Backup Configuration and then performed a visual survey of the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM). This morning, the ISS crew monitored the SpaceX-19 Dragon approach to the ISS from the Cupola Robotic Workstation (RWS) and at 10:05 GMT they captured the Dragon using the SSRMS. The Robotic Ground Controllers then maneuvered the SSRMS in position to support the inspection of the Dragon Passive CBM sealing surface and then installed the Dragon on the Node2 Nadir Active CBM. Once the CBM Ground Controllers had captured and A-bolted the Dragon to Node2, the Robotic Ground Controllers de-configured the MSS from the Hot Backup Configuration and powered it down.

