
Ocular Health (OH) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Test and Fundoscope Examination:  FE-3 Hopkins, supporting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed OCT tests as part of FE-5 Mastracchio’s and FE-6 Wakata’s Flight Day 30 OH sessions which will continue over the next three days.  Following the OCT examination, Mastracchio and Wakata applied drops to their eyes to dilate them.  Hopkins then conducted a Fundoscope eye examination with remote guidance from ground experts. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Sprint Ultrasound Scans: FE-5 Mastracchio performed as the operator in conducting the second Sprint ultrasound scans of FE-6 Wakata’s thigh and calf, with remote guidance from the ground team.  Prior to the scans Wakata set up the equipment and, with Mastrachhio’s assistance, placed reference marks on his calf and the thigh of his right leg, and donned thigh and calf guides. The Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Cygnus Offset Grapple #1 On-Board Training (OBT): Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and Hopkins, Mastracchio and Wakata maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into and out of the grapple envelope of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF).  They repeated this five times and then maneuvered the SSRMS back to the PMM High Hover position.  This was the first of two SSRMS practice sessions to help prepare the ISS crew for capturing the Cygnus spacecraft on December 20th.
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Status:  Ground specialists were able to recover the Node 3 CDRA functionality following yesterday’s CDRA Fan Motor Controller (FMC) high temperature fault. Telemetry indicated a sensor failure and not an actual controller over temperature condition.  Overnight, the team proceeded to mask the sensor in question then restarted the Node 3 CDRA.  Redundant sensors are available in order to monitor the Fan Motor Controller temperature. CDRA has been operating nominally since the restart.
Sabatier Manual CO2 Accumulator Purges: The crew performed 2 additional manual purges of the Sabatier CO2 accumulator today.  These were a continuation of the 4 purges performed yesterday and were performed in an attempt to expel all the water that has built up in the CO2 Accumulator.  No water was seen during both of today’s purge attempts.  Sabatier was then returned to nominal processing, and has been operating successfully since that time.
Service Module (SM) 8.07 Software Transition – Today, the Service Module Central Computers (ЦВМ) and Service Module Terminal Computers (TBM) were upgraded from the SM 8.05 software load to the SM 8.07 software load. MCC-M is currently working a few clean up steps as a result of the software update. The new software will support the Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) and European Robotic Arm (ERA) manipulator, as well as provide increased Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) capabilities, upgraded RS thruster control algorithms, and Caution and Warning software to support USOS Toxic Atmosphere response.
Aniso Tubule Experiment Deferred: JAXA postponed the Aniso Tubule experiment activities scheduled for today to allow for additional time to troubleshoot an anomaly that occurred during the previous Aniso Tubule experiment run.  The anomaly was in the loss of communication between the laptop and microscope being used.  The Ground team is working on a forward plan for completion of the remaining experiment runs.

