
86 Progress (86P) Launch: This morning at 3:25 AM CT, 86P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome carrying food, fuel, and supplies to the ISS. An automated docking to the ISS MRM-2 Zenith docking port will occur on Sunday, December 3rd at approximately 5:15 AM CT after completing a 34-orbit rendezvous.
Payloads:
Four Bed CO2 (4BCO2) Scrubber: CO2 effluent and humidity sampling was taken from the 4BCO2 scrubber. 4BCO2 Scrubber demonstrates a technology for removing carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation. A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure, and this technology is a step toward that goal.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The BFF overnight print attempt was not successful, and the crew performed cleaning ops and a replacement of the cassette and syringes in preparation of another attempt. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Nucleic Acid Extraction System (µTitan): Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was pipetted into cartridges and samples were extracted and then placed into cold stowage along with preserve yeast for return. µTitan is an instrument used to isolate DNA from various samples in microgravity. Methods exist for sequencing DNA on the ISS, but no methods currently exist to extract DNA from a sample in space or the ISS. This technology could provide a tool for crew members on the space station to sequence DNA to answer health-related questions and identify microbial content in samples.
Systems:
Advanced Resisitive Exercise Device (ARED) Detent Plate Rotation and Adjustment: The crew rotated and adjusted the ARED detent plates to restore full functionality.  ARED uses adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.  Without exercises like those performed on the ARED, astronauts could lose up to 15% of their muscle volume.  ARED’s primary goal is to maintain muscle strength and mass in astronauts during long periods in space. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS EveryWear (EVW) Medication and Nutrition Tracking: The crew recorded daily nutrition and medication intake. EVW is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general. 
Photo/TV Port 4A Mast Survey Imagery and Survey Teardown: The crew completed the ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) and Solar Array Wing (SAW) survey began yesterday by taking HD photos of the Port 4A SAW mast.  Afterwords, the D5 cameras were removed from the Cupola and returned to their previous configuration.  Micro Meteroid and Orbital Debris (MMOD) present a potential risk to the solar arrays.  HD photography surveys must be routinely taken in order to determine current physical condition of SAW and IROSA structures. The SAWs are the main power generating systems of the ISS, producing electrical power from solar energy. IROSAs are new arrays installed on the already existing SAWs. They provide additional power to station as well as setup ISS for future commercial modules.
Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Kit and Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Sample Collection: Today, the crew took air and surface samples onboard the ISS for microbial analysis.  Air samples were taken using the MAS with Petri Dishes.  The air samples were taken in the Lab, Node 1, Node 2, Node 3, COL, and JPM.  Surface samples were then taken using media slides for flat surfaces and swab tubes for non-flat surfaces. The surface samples were taken in the JPM, Columbus, the Lab, Node 1, Node 2, Node 3, and the PMM.
