
Ocular Health:  Virts conducted Flight Day 15 Ocular Health vision test. With Wilmore acting as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), eye and blood pressure measurements were collected on Virts. Tomorrow, retinal images will be collected using the fundoscope. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Body Measures:  Wilmore, acting as an operator, assisted subject Virts in setting up equipment, collecting the calibration, body pose photographs and the circumference measurements in support of the Body Measures experiment.  Currently, NASA does not have sufficient in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) gathered to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. This study will involve collecting anthropometric data (body measurements) using digital still and video imagery and a tape measure to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments from astronauts for pre-, post-, and in-flight conditions.
Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA):  Wilmore connected cables to the CGBAs #4 and #6 in the Express Rack, powered on the units, and performed a checkout in preparation for payloads arriving on SpaceX-5.
Nanoracks Module 27:  Virts reviewed Nanoracks Plate Reader Onboard Training materials, retrieved microplates from MELFI and utilized the Plate Reader to scan Module-27 Microplates.  NanoRacks-Module-27 compares the growth rates of microbes isolated from samples collected from ground-based public venues both in the microgravity environment of the ISS and in the lab at UC Davis. This study also characterizes the microbial communities found on surfaces aboard the ISS using culture-independent methods.
Bone and Muscle Check:  Cristoforetti collected Saliva and urine samples to support Bone and Muscle Check.   Salivary Markers of Metabolic Changes during Space Missions (Check-Saliva) tests crewmembers’ saliva, blood, and urine before, during and after spaceflight to study whether saliva tests can serve as reliable health monitors. Microgravity reduces bone and muscle mass, which is related to changes in certain substances in the bloodstream and urine. Some of these changes can also be detected in saliva samples. Tests using Check-Saliva can validate whether saliva and/or urine can be used as simple, non-invasive tools to monitor crewmembers’ bone and muscle status during a space mission.
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming SpaceX-5 mission, Virts worked with ground teams in order to activate the CUCU System and performed a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during rendezvous operations and is part of Launch Commit Criteria Flight Rules. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) 3005 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Procedure Review:  Wilmore and Cristoforetti reviewed procedures associated with the replacement of EMU 3005 FPS. The FPS had failed to spin up during a Loop Scrub activity in October and a replacement was subsequently flown onboard Soyuz 41S.  The FPS change out is scheduled to occur tomorrow and Wednesday with a full EMU 3005 return to service checkout occurring on Thursday. 

