
Ocular Health:  Wilmore set up Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware and software to perform eye exams using the OCT Laptop.  The Fundoscope and OCT laptop was also used for a retinal imaging examination on Virts with remote guidance from ground specialists.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Ansio Tubule:  The crew retrieved an Aniso Tubule Sample from Minus Eighty degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and attached the sample on the Saibo rack front to expose it to cabin light.  After 6 – 24 hours the crew inserts the sample in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF). Experimenters will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls and the changing orientation of cortical microtubule under microgravity conditions in space. Scientists will further observe changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Nanaoracks 27:  Virts utilized the Plate Reader to perform the 2nd of 5 scans for NanoRacks Module-27 samples (3 Microplates). The daily scans will continue through Friday with the crew retrieving data for downlink via the NanoRacks Platform after every session.  NanoRacks-Module-27 compares the growth rates of microbes isolated from samples collected from ground-based public venues both in the microgravity environment of the ISS and in the lab at UC Davis. This study also characterizes the microbial communities found on surfaces aboard the ISS using culture-independent methods.
Human Research Facility (HRF):  Cristoforetti collected and processed urine and blood and completed a health assessment questionnaire to support the Bone and Muscle Check. Salivary Markers of Metabolic Changes during Space Missions (Check-Saliva) tests crewmembers’ saliva, blood, and urine before, during and after spaceflight to study whether saliva tests can serve as reliable health monitors. Microgravity reduces bone and muscle mass, which is related to changes in certain substances in the bloodstream and urine. Some of these changes can also be detected in saliva samples.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) 3005 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Change Out: Today, Wilmore and Cristoforetti performed part 1 to replace the failed FPS.  Part 1 consists of preparing the US Airlock, gathering tools, removing the FPS grounding strap and mounting screws.  Part 2, which is scheduled for tomorrow will have the crew take out the failed FPS then install and prime the new pump.  This change out is being performed as a result of the FPS failing to spin up during an EMU Loop Scrub activity in October. The replacement pump was subsequently flown onboard Soyuz 41S.  A full EMU 3005 return to service checkout is scheduled to occur on Thursday. 
P6 Channel 2B Battery Reconditioning:  Yesterday, ground controllers initiated the P6 Channel 2B battery reconditioning. Reconditioning will be performed over a 7-day period. Nickel hydrogen batteries can develop and display memory loss resulting in a temporary loss of capacity that should be periodically erased by fully discharging and charging cells. After the reconditioning, the data will be analyzed and a new Pre-position Loads (PPLs) will be developed and uplinked, which will be used to maximize the capacity and reserve energy to target values without overcharging.

