
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Launch Attempt:  Today’s planned launch of OA-4 from Cape Canaveral, Florida was scrubbed due to ground wind violations.  The next attempt will be on Saturday, December 5th at 4:11 pm CST.  The Enhanced Cygnus spacecraft will be launched atop a United Launch Alliance Atlas V Rocket and will be delivering approximately 3,500 kg of pressurized cargo to the ISS.  A successful Saturday launch sets the stage for ISS rendezvous and capture on Wednesday, December 9th.
 
Microbiome:  For his Return Minus 14 day (R-14) Microbiome session, Yui collected body samples this morning.  He answered survey questionnaires over the previous two days.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Dynamic Surf 3:  Yui exchanged the Video Recording Unit (VRU) hard disk drive in JAXA’s Image Processing Unit (IPU) for the Dynamic Surf 3 investigation.  A disk drive filled with data generated from the experiment will be replaced with a fresh drive for continued recording.  The Dynamic Surf 3 investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments designed to provide insight into the underlying principles of Marangoni convection.  These experiments demonstrate in microgravity the flow transition phenomena from steady to oscillatory, chaotic, and finally turbulent.  Observations are made of fluid convection during formation of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by differential heating of two discs within the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF). The results of this investigation could ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly completed another Flight Day 240 saliva collection, stowing samples in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today after waking.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Space Headaches: Yui completed his weekly Space Headaches questionnaires.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Yui and Lindgren continued packing their personal items in preparation for crew return to Earth on Soyuz 43 (43S) on December 11th. The items will return on 43S, SpX-8, and SpX-9.
 
Orbital-ATK 4 (OA-4) Preparation:  Kelly and Lindgren completed their 2nd Dragon Robot On-Board Training (OBT) session. The purpose was to perform three Capture Point (CP) hold runs, allowing the Crew to practice free drift timing, malfunctions, nominal rate approaches, and as many 2 meter approaches as time allows.
 
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)3 Ingress/Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Retrieval: Earlier this morning, Kelly removed items from the Node 3 (N3) Port Endcone to access PMA3. Lindgren then ingressed the PMA3 and retrieved the spare SSU that will be used for the SSU 1B Extravehicular Activity (EVA). Kelly subsequently restowed the items that were removed from N3.
 
Radiation Area Monitors (RAM) Retrieval: Today, Lindgren retrieved 24 RAMs which were placed in various locations throughout the ISS. Twenty three of these RAMs arrived on 42S, and one arrived on 43S.  They are all scheduled to return on 43S.
 
 

