
Human Research Program (HRP) collections and operations: Over the weekend, the crew continued sample collections for Biochem Profile, Repository, and Cardio Ox investigations. This morning the Cardio Ox subject donned an Electrocardiogram (ECG) and with operator assistance performed ultrasound scans of the Brachial and Carotid arteries.

The Biochem Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This investigation archives biosamples for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
Cardio Ox determines whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.

At Home in Space: The crew answered the first of two At Home in Space questionnaires, the second to be scheduled at roughly Return-30 days (R-30).  The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) experiment, At Home in Space assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the space craft by creating a home in space. At Home In Space uses a questionnaire battery to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth.
Galley Rack Mod Kit Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) Power Cable Routing: The crew routed the UOP Power Cable for the Galley Rack from the Node 1 (N1) Port Hatch location to the Galley Rack Utility Interface Panel (UIP). This is one of several mod kit procedures to install power, data, cooling, and general outfitting of the Galley Rack prior to the activation of the N1 Galley rack and associated relocation of the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) and Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubators (MERLINs) from the Lab to Node 1.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance: The crew completed EMU 3003 and 3008 cooling loop maintenance.  The maintenance included an ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of both EMU suits and the Airlock cooling water loops. 
On-Board Training (OBT) Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT): The crew performed a training session during which they completed three HTV capture point hold runs.  During this training session the crew practiced free drift timing, malfunction responses, and nominal rate approaches. This activity is in preparation for HII Transfer Vehicle 6 (HTV-6) capture currently planned on 13-December. 
Robotic External Leak Locator (RELL) Operations:  Over the weekend Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Serving System (MSS) cameras and lights and maneuvered Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm1 as required to perform a second RELL survey of Radiator Beam Valve Module 1 (RBVM1) to gather more data as RELL spotted ammonia in this area on GMT 336-337. The SSRMS and SPDM were than maneuvered to install RELL on the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Slide Table. After the Japanese Experiment Module Orbital Replaceable Unit Transfer Interface (JOTI) was closed on RELL, SPDM Orbital Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism 1 (OTCM1) released RELL.  MSS was maneuvered to park position, while JEM Slide table was retracted into the airlock with the RELL.

