ISS On-Orbit Status 12/05/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
After wakeup, FE-2 Tarelkin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection and also completed the daily reboot of the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops.
 
FE-1 Novitskiy rebooted the Russian RS1 &amp; RS2 laptops.
 
CDR Ford started the day with another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, his 10<sup>th</sup>.     [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Ford continued setting up the FSL (Fluid Sciences Laboratory) Rack for upcoming RIC ASW (Rack Interface Controller Application SoftWare) tests and GEOFLOW2b (Simulation of Geophysical Fluid Flow Under Microgravity 2b) experiment runs, today installing the 4 AVM (Anti-Vibration Mount) brackets.     [The FSL FCE (Facility Core Element) has to be unlocked before the experiment starts to improve the micro-g condition, and the AVM brackets have to be installed to prevent the unwanted extraction of the FCE from the FSL Rack. Per Kevin’s crew note, only 2 of the 8 launch bolts were engaged prior to the procedure (which took 35 minutes of crew time instead of 15 allotted.] 
 
Novitskiy continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today still working in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) where ha used a vacuum cleaner and soft brush to clean the interior closeout panel vent screens 116, 316, 231, 431, 201, 301 and 401.
 
Tarelkin continued the outfitting in the SM started yesterday, replacing the SOTR (Thermal Control System) ventilators VPO7 &amp; VGZhT2 with new low-noise fans. Afterwards, Evgeny measured the acoustics with the new fans activated and then took documentary photography. The outfitting was supported by ground specialist tagup.
 
In the Lab, after reviewing onboard training material for checking out the NanoRacks Plate Reader device, Kevin Ford installed the locker, transferred a protocol file from the ER2 (EXPRESS Rack 2) T61p laptop (at O1) to the Plate Reader and performed the latter’s validation checkout for future operations. FE-2 Tarelkin shot documentary photography.     [NanoRacks Plate Reader is a laboratory instrument designed to detect biological, chemical or physical events of samples in microtiter plates. Microplate readers are widely used in research, drug discovery, bioassay validation, quality control and manufacturing processes in the pharmaceutical and biotechnological industry and academic organizations. The instrument on ISS is a modified SpectraMax® M5e Multi-Mode Microplate Reader, the standard for UV/Visible multi-mode reader absorbance, providing ultrafast, full spectral range detection for cuvettes. It possesses five modes: UV-Visible Absorbance, Fluorescence Intensity, Time-Resolved Fluorescence, Fluorescence Polarization, and Glow Luminescence, thus providing the benefit of multiple detection modes in one platform with ultrafast, full spectral range detection for cuvettes, 96-well, and 384-well microplates.]
 
Later, Kevin set up the NanoRacks Microscope 2 and used it to view and study MMOD (Micrometeoroid/Orbital Debris) impacts and other marks present on EVA (Extravehicular Activities) equipment using ER6 T61p laptop (O4), then stowed the gear.
 
Oleg took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Evgeny completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
CDR Ford underwent his 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the U.S. PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol as subject, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on BP (blood pressure) &amp; ECG (electrocardiogram) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer in the US Lab.  Readings were taken with BP/ECG equipment and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter. FE-1 Novitskiy assisted as Operator/CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  The BP/ECG recordings were later transferred from the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) via USB thumb drive to a T61p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop for downlink to the ground.  The video equipment was then closed down.     [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.] 
 
Novitskiy &amp; Tarelkin teamed up for another session with the KPT-2 payload suite of BAR science instruments for 2h15m, using the AU-1 Ultrasound Analyzer of the BAR instrument suite to take acoustic readings at a locations in the SM RO (Working Compartment) and PrK (Transfer Tunnel), checking for tiny leaks. The measurements are made by placing a microphone at the front part of the object at a distance of 50 cm. Documentary photography was taken with the NIKON D2X camera with SB 800 flash.     [KPT-2 monitors problem areas, necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life. Data are copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities are supported by ground specialist tagup as required. Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization. Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer / thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times (AU-1 Ultrasound readings can be used for detecting tiny leaks to vacuum).  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
FE-1 &amp; FE-2 each had an exercise-related PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, discussing workout issues with exercise specialists, Evgeny at ~2:20am, Oleg at ~2:55am.
 
The CDR had his standard weekly PMC at ~12:15pm.
 
At ~9:55am, the three crewmembers supported a PAO TV event, downlinking their greetings &amp; congratulations to Astronaut Scott Kelly &amp; Cosmonaut Mikhail Kornienko at their individual press conferences at JSC/Houston and TsUP/Moscow on their selection for a one-year mission aboard the ISS beginning in 2015. 
 
The three crewmembers worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2).
 
Tasks listed for Evgeny &amp; Oleg on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Downlinking the noise level data from today’s and yesterday’s acoustic measurements in the SM,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U  to record target sites on the Earth surface, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were St. Helena Island, Atlantic Ocean (HMS Beagle Site:  ISS had an early morning pass in scattered to partly cloudy weather over this solitary South Atlantic island. While the island is perhaps most famous as the final place of exile for French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte, the island was also visited by Charles Darwin during his famous voyage of 1836. There are few visual cues for detecting this target except perhaps for its impact on the local oceanic cloud field. At the suggested time the crew was to begin looking right of track for detailed views of the whole island), and Kerguelen Islands, Indian Ocean (Glaciers: There were probably scattered clouds over Kerguelen as it is seldom cloud-free. Cloud cover should have decreased by the time of the ISS pass. This glaciated and volcanic archipelago is located in the far south Indian Ocean nearly 2,000 miles southeast of the island of Madagascar. Of greatest interest is imagery for monitoring of the rarely photographed ice field and glaciers located on the western end of the main island. Cook Glacier and its ice field were the crew’s prime features. With an area of ~403 km2, it is quoted as "France's largest glacier," since the islands are a French possession. At this time as ISS approached from WSW, the crew was to look just right of track for detailed mapping views of this feature).
 

