
Payloads:
Aquamembrane-3: The Aquamembrane-3 Test run was initiated. A crewmember was present during the run to check the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Sample Bags. After a maximum of 20 minutes of run, the experiment is terminated and equipment is stowed. The Testing Contaminant Rejection of Aquaporin Inside® Hollow-Fiber Forward Osmosis (HFFO) Module (Aquamembrane-3) investigation examines the contaminant rejection and water transport capabilities of the Aquaporin Inside® HFFO Module under microgravity conditions aboard the International Space Station.
Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion: The Habitat was removed from the incubation and fixation was performed on the 12-Well BioCell  before being placed into cold stowage. Polymicrobial Biofilm Growth and Control during Spaceflight (Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion) explores the formation under microgravity conditions of multi-species biofilms, which may behave differently from single-species biofilms. This investigation identifies the bacterial genes used during biofilm growth, examines whether these biofilms can corrode stainless steel, and evaluates the effectiveness of a silver-based disinfectant. The microorganisms in biofilms can become resistant to traditional cleaning chemicals, leading to contamination of water treatment systems, damage to equipment, and potential health risks to astronauts.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF)-Cardiac: The current Tissue Cassette (S/N 20628) was unsuccessful and the crew was directed to remove the cassette and perform the BFF closeout procedures. The Redwire Cardiac Bioprinting Investigation (BFF-Cardiac) uses the Redwire BFF to print and process cardiac tissue samples for study and eventual use on Earth. Microgravity enables printing of tissue samples of higher quality than those printed on the ground. Results could advance technologies for producing organs and tissues in lieu of donated organs for transplant and improve 3D printing so that crews on future long-duration space missions could print foods and medicines on demand.
Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina): The Lumina Dosimeter was power cycled and data was transferred. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Systems:
ISS EveryWear (EVW) Medication and Nutrition Tracking: The crew recorded daily nutrition and medication intake. EVW is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general.
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies to and from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December. 
Crew Active Dosimeter (CAD) Replacement: The crew retrieved the spare CAD from stowage, replaced the battery of new CAD, and stowed the old CAD for return on SpX-29.  Dosimeters measure exposure to ionizing radiation and the CAD is a crew-worn real-time detector used for ISS operations.  The CAD continuously measures and sends down the radiation data for analysis by ground specialists.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
