
ISS Deboost: On Wednesday, US tracking sources identified a debris conjunction of concern with Object 39915 with a Time of Closest Approach (TCA) of 337/10:33 GMT. Due to this risk, this morning ISS performed a 0.3 m/s retrograde Predetermined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) at 07:58 GMT. This conjunction remained at actionable levels since initial notification, and the burn completed nominally and successfully mitigated the risk.
Payloads:
ACME (Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments):  Crewmembers replaced the Manifold 4 bottle with a new bottle containing 100% Ethylene.  The ACME project is a set of six independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR).  ACME’s primary and secondary goals are (1) improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth, and (2) spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Acoustic Diagnostics:  A crewmember performed the Acoustic Diagnostics hardware setup and executed measurements. The data was then transferred to a laptop.  The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics) investigation tests the hearing of International Space Station (ISS) crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
ISS HAM:  The Hino Elementary School & Canna Project-Canna School Contact Team, Suzaka, Japan participated in an ISS HAM communication with a crewmember.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents, and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering, and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS):  Electrolysis water was transferred from the electrolysis water tank into a JEM WRS Processed Water Bag using a syringe.  The Demonstration of JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS) generates potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Systems: 
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: The crew completed multiple post-EVA activities after yesterday’s successful P1 SASA R&R EVA. Their activities included an EVA debrief, water operations to recharge EMUs, EVA glove photos for post-EVA inspection, Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) relocation, Airlock deconfiguration and cleanup, and a high definition camera power down post-photo transfer to ISS server.

