
57 Soyuz (57S) Launch and Docking: The 57S vehicle launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome this morning at 5:31 CT and completed a nominal docking to the ISS at 11:33 CT. The 57S crew, Oleg Kononenko, David Saint-Jacques, and Anne McClain, returned ISS to 6-crew operations after hatch opening at 13:38 CT. This afternoon, the entire ISS crew conducted a Safety Briefing to familiarize the new Soyuz crew with potential hazards and available safety measures on-board ISS; they reviewed the Emergency Equipment in 57S and practiced utilizing various emergency egress routes in the new station configuration.
Actiwatch Spectrum: Today the crew connected two Actiwatch Spectrum monitors to the Human Research Facility (HRF)1 rack for ground commanding and then stowed both monitors. Later, two crewmembers donned the Actiwatch Spectrum monitors. The Actiwatch Spectrum is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains an accelerometer for measuring motion and color sensitive photodiodes (a photodetector capable of converting light into voltage) for monitoring ambient lighting. Together, these capabilities enable the Actiwatch Spectrum to be used to analyze circadian rhythms, sleep-wake patterns, and activity.
Design of Scalable Gas Separation Membranes via Synthesis Under Microgravity (Cemsica): Today the crew removed the processed second Cemsica science cartridge from the Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA) facility and inserted the third science cartridge. Later, another swap was performed to insert the fourth sample. Cemsica tests a novel approach of using particles of calcium-silicate (C-S) to synthesize nanoporous membranes (those with pores 100 nanometers or smaller) that can separate carbon dioxide molecules from air or other gases. Synthesizing the materials in microgravity may resolve existing challenges in membrane manufacturing and lead to development of lower-cost membranes with improved flux and high-temperature stability.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Powerup : Today the Robotics ground controllers powered up the MSS and positioned the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) in preparation for the crew offset grapples practice. The crew practiced several times flying SSRMS into the grapple envelope of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) for training/familiarization in preparation of SpX-16 capture. After the crew completed their practice, ground controllers maneuvered SSRMS back at Rendezvous (RDV) Park, in position for the Dragon capture day December 6.

