
Cygnus unberth:  This morning, the crew egressed Cygnus.  They then configured the vestibule and prepared to depressurize the vestibule.  Ground teams identified EMI as the cause of the pressure probe anomaly and successfully depressurized the vestibule.  Later, the Cygnus vehicle was unberthed and positioned it for the GPS shadowing (“photobomb”) Developmental Test Objective (DTO).  Cygnus will be held in that position overnight and then repositioned for release tomorrow.  Cygnus arrived at the ISS on the 14th of November carrying supplies, and is now departing with hardware and trash for disposal.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: Today the crew captured images of the Iberian peninsula. The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Configuration for Cell Science Validation: The crew set up the Life Science Ancillary Hardware (LSAH) in the MSG today to prepare for the Cell Science Validation activities.  They installed the Decontamination System, Rear Standoff and Life Science filters. This flight of the Bioculture System is to validate the hardware by testing and checking out its engineering and operational capability to maintain cell cultures for a long duration in the space flight environment on the ISS. The new enabling capabilities and procedures to manually conduct experiments with the specimens cultured in the Bioculture System will also be demonstrated.  The validation of the Bioculture System performance in the space flight environment is a critical step to insure the success of future space bioscience experiments that will be conducted on ISS using this facility. 
51S Descent Drill:  51S crewmembers participated in onboard training to rehearse their upcoming descent and landing, planned for December 14th. 
EHS SSK MAS analysis:  Today the crew analyzed microbial samples which were taken on GMT day 334 (November 30) and incubated until today.  This information gives medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth in the air and on surfaces of the ISS.

