
EXPRESS Rack (ER) Gateway Configuration:  Virts configured the ER6, 7, 8 laptops to communicate with the Payload Ethernet Hub/Gateway (PEHG)-2 allowing remote desktop access from the ground to the laptops via the ISS Ku-Band link.
3D Printing in Zero G:  Cristoforetti removed and stowed a 3D printed coupon that was created yesterday. Afterwards, ground teams commenced printing the next coupon.  The 3D printing in Zero–G technology demonstration experiment aims to validate extrusion-based additive manufacturing technology’s ability to function in a micro-gravity environment.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Bed Removal:  Wilmore and Virts performed the complex task to remove the Node 3 CDRA from its rack and extracted the Desiccant/Sorbent Beds 201 and 202 from the unit. Cleaning of the beds is scheduled to occur Wednesday and Thursday of this week.  Pressures across the rear and front desiccant/adsorbent beds of the Node 3 CDRA have been increasing since the previous cleaning in June of this year. The reduction in flow is due to flaking adsorbent material (Zeolite) inside the beds. The main goal of this week’s task is to separate each desiccant/adsorbent bed into its two parts, clean the Zeolite, change out a filter, and then re-assemble the beds. Lab CDRA is operating this week to maintain CO2 within limits.
Service Module Voltage/Current Stabilizer [CHT] Testing:  Cristoforetti setup two Station Support Computers (SSCs) to measure current in CHTs.  During setup, three current clamps were configured with new batteries then connected to USB Oscilloscopes and had their zero set point verified.  Samokutyaev assisted with power connection for SSC Laptops and identification of wires to be tested.  The goal of CHT testing is to assess their performance by capturing high speed 2 channel oscilloscope electrical current data at the input (ISS Primary Power 151-160VDC) and output (28VDC) of each CHT simultaneously over a 4 day period, while forcing them into different modes, “Current Regulation” and “Voltage Regulation”.

