
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Launch:  The Enhanced Cygnus spacecraft was successfully launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida atop a United Launch Alliance Atlas V Rocket on Sunday at 3:44pm CST.  Sunday’s launch sets the stage for ISS rendezvous and capture on Wednesday, December 9th.  Cygnus will be delivering approximately 3,500 kg of pressurized cargo to the ISS.
 
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Troubleshooting:  Kelly and Yui performed troubleshooting to restore the MSG slide mechanism to proper alignment today. The slide mechanism initially malfunctioned on November 17th, preventing the work volume from being extended for crew access.
 
Microbiome:  For his Return Minus Zero day (R-0) Microbiome session, Yui collected saliva samples Saturday, Sunday and today.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Fine Motor Skills:  One year crewmembers Kelly and Kornienko each completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  During the experiment they performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. Fine Motor Skills sessions completed by Kelly and Kornienko will provide data for identification of trends or variations in fine motor performance in microgravity over the duration of their year-long space mission and upon their return to earth.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly continued his week-long Flight Day 240 daily saliva collections.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
Veg-01:  On Saturday Kelly refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water.  Lindgren also refilled them today. The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Sleep Log:  Both Kelly and Kornienko recorded Sleep Log entries Saturday and Sunday after waking.  Kornienko also recorded an entry this morning.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Yui and Lindgren continued packing their personal items in preparation for crew return to Earth on Soyuz 43 (43S) on December 11th. The items will return by way of 43S, SpX-8, and SpX-9 vehicles.
 

