ISS On-Orbit Status 12/05/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Underway: Week 3 of Increment 30 (three-person crew).
 
 After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 FE-1 also conducted the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
 CDR Burbank supported JAXA JEMRMS (Japan Experiment Module Robotic Manipulator System) ground-control activities by turning the MA (Main Arm) brake switch to Off and the EE (End Effector) Enable 1,2 switches to the On position. [SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center)/Tsukuba then conducted a video survey of JEMRMS hardware for the Demo #1 and Demo #2 activities. Demo #1 is scheduled tomorrow, also by ground control.]
 
 In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Dan afterwards performed repair on the EDR (European Drawer Rack) laptop. [After photo-documenting a damaged S-VIDEO connector with bent pins and stowing it, labeled “Defective”, the CDR inspected the corresponding IN socket on the laptop’s backside which is suspect, and photographed it for ground inspections. The EDR laptop data cable was then reconnected to its three plugs (S-Video In, Laptop LAN, Laptop RS422/232) and connectivity was confirmed.]
 
 Later, Burbank started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), his 3rd, deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.[Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop. The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer). This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
 Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin had ~3 hrs set aside for a routine maintenance and audit/inventory of STTS audio subsystem components (GNSh headsets &amp; RTT switches) in the SM, complete with quantities, condition, manufacturer’s number and locations, recording findings on a log for subsequent downlink.
 
 Anatoly performed the periodic (every Monday) verification of the automatic IUS AntiVirus program on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2, as well as the manual update on the non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1. [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update. Before the installation (on 8/8) of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1. On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops. Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied onRSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily. On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
 The two Russian FEs started a new round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems.[Anatoly worked in the MRM1 Rassvet module, removing &amp; replacing the SPKF1 &amp; SKPF2 dust filter cartridges and cleaning the GZhT gas/liquids heat exchanger grill, then updating the IMS (Inventory Management System), while Anton worked in the MRM2 Poisk module to clean the PF1 &amp; PF2 dust collectors, V1 &amp; V2 fan screens, VD1 &amp; VD2 air ducts, and V3 fan grill.]
 
 Dan performed the periodic calibration check on the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), followed by his 3rd periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose, followed by the periodic changeout of the TOCA WWB (Waste Water Bag).[After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
 Burbank also built two EDV-U urine containers from buckets &amp; lids to support upcoming ARFTA (Advanced Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) and WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) operations, one for the WHC, the other for brine offloading.
 
 Next, the CDR conducted the periodic transfer of urine from an EDV-U container (#970) to the UPA WSTA (Urine Processor Assembly / Waste Storage Tank Assembly) for UPA processing, using the Russian Kompressor-M powered by a Ku-band power supply, filling WSTA to ~70% in preparation for tomorrow’s scheduled ARFTA drain. [During such transfers, the crewmember always wears protective safety goggles, dust mask and nitrile gloves.]
 
 FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Anatoly also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 With the Lab camcorder configured to provide live views, Dan Burbank worked several hours on the PACE (Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment) science payload in the FIR FCF (Fluids Integrated Rack Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility), configuring the hardware, cleaning out oil from the AFC (Auxiliary Fluids Container), removing the old sample (#2002) and starting the processing of a new sample (#2004). [PACE is an interesting Technology experiment, designed to investigate the capability of conducting high magnification colloid experiments with the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) for determining the minimum size particles which can be resolved with it. Today’s activity steps included opening the FIR doors, taking out two cables between the CVB (Constrained Vapor Bubble) Control Box and the Optics Bench and the LMM AFC and installing one cable between the Optics Bench and the LMM AFC, then cleaning up oil from inside the AFC and removing PACE sample #2001 from the PACE Test Target. Next, Dan mixed the 3rd particle sample, #2004, with the BCAT magnet, mounted the PACE test target and installed the sample and the PACE oil dispenser into the LMM AFC. The AFC front door was closed and the oil started to be dispensed onto the sample. The LMM Spindle Bracket Assembly was then rotated to the Operate position and the rack doors were closed. The new experiment run, which uses the newly installed PACE LED (Light-Emitting Diode) Base to allow illumination from below the samples (or trans-illumination), will enable the ground to use the LMM microscope to examine tissue and particle samples and also characterize the microscope for ACE (Advanced Colloids Experiment) scheduled to begin in 2012. ACE Objective: To remove gravitational jamming and sedimentation so that it is possible to observe how order arises out of disorder and to learn to control this process. Small colloidal particles can be used to model atomic systems and to engineer new systems. Colloids are big enough (in comparison to atoms) to be seen and big enough that their evolution can be recorded with a camera. With a confocal microscope, templates, and grids, we can observe this process in 3-D and learn to control it.]
 
 In the US Lab, Dan uninstalled &amp; removed the three alignment guides from CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Bay S3, engaged the snubber pins and locked the safety pins to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be active before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.
 
 The CDR also had another time slot set aside for making entries in his electronic Journal on his personal SSC (Station Support Computer). [Required are three journaling sessions per week.] 
 
 The three crewmembers again had about an hour of free time each for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
 Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
 At ~1:05pm EST, the CDR powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 1:10pm conducted a ham radio session with students at the Nuvviti School, Ivujivik Nunavik Quebec, Canada.
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2). [After the extensive chassis maintenance on 12/2 &amp; 12/4 by Anton &amp; Anatoly, TVIS was given the Go for use by ground specialists.]
 
 The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1 &amp; FE-2 for today suggested more preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), and
 
 GHF Checkout: On 12/1, JAXA ground controllers began an extensive checkout of the GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) payload on the Kobairo Rack in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) which is continuing for about 14 days.
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 
 
