
Ocular Health (OH) Cardiac and Ocular Ultrasounds: FE-6 Wakata and FE-5 Mastrachhio, alternating as the Crew Medical Officer, conducted ocular ultrasound scans of each other as part of each of their Flight Day 30 OH sessions. Mastrachio then performed a cardiac ultrasound of Wakata.  Remote guidance was provided by ground experts to ensure proper positioning and data collection. These ultrasounds are used to identify changes in ocular globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-8 Test: Hopkins set up and initiated a CFE ICF-8 run. CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners of vessels with various geometries. The ICF-8 vessel has vanes aligned along the vertex of a teardrop shaped cylinder. Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity.  Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
Circadian Rhythms: Wakata instrumented himself with the Armband monitor and sensors then mounted the Thermolab unit onto his belt. The equipment will be worn for the next 36 hours. This study examines the circadian variation of astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight. The research is expected to provide insights into changes in those functions before, during and after long-duration space flight and may be used to improve the health care technology used for future ISS crewmembers.

