
Payloads:
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-23 (J-SSOD-23):  Crewmembers observed the J-SSOD-23 deployed satellites.  J-SSOD-23 CubeSat deployment mission launched to the ISS aboard the NG-18 Cargo Vehicle. The CubeSats planned deployables are: PearlAfricaSat-1 (1U), Science, Technology, and Innovation Office of the President (Uganda); TAKA (2U) Kyushu Institute of Technology (Japan); ZIMSAT-1 (1U), Zimbabwe National Geospatial and Space Agency (ZINGSA) (Zimbabwe); SpaceTuna1 (1U), Service provider: Mitsui Bussan Aerospace Inc. (Japan).
Suture in Space:  Two Suture in Space Advanced Experiment Containers (AEC) were deinstalled from Biolab Incubator, placed into Iceberg-1 for cold stowage, and packed for return.  Although some studies have demonstrated that first aid and surgical procedures are feasible in space, suture behavior and wound healing mechanisms in weightlessness are poorly known. Wound healing and Sutures in Unloading Conditions (Suture in Space) investigates the behavior of sutured wounds and the mechanisms of tissue repair/regeneration in microgravity. Studying the complex models and the hardware developed to perform this experiment on the ISS, allows for researchers to measure mechanical forces at the wound site, monitor the wound closure, and study the mechanisms involved in tissue repair.
TangoLab-Mission 30:  The crew removed card S/N 12 from slot A and removed cube QUST_NXT02. Crew then attached QUST_NXT02 to card S/N 32 and installed it back in Slot A. The crew also removed card S/N 20 from slot B and removed cube UCSD_SND02. Crew then attached cube QUST_NXT03 to card S/N 33 and installed it in Slot B. Space Tango’s TangoLab lockers and Powered Ascent Utility Lockers (PAUL) are reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: In preparation for US EVA #82 (3A IROSA Install EVA) scheduled on Saturday, the crew completed their pre-EVA tool configurations while also performing a final tool audit to ensure all the necessary tools have been prepared. The crew also prepared the equipment lock and both extravehicular mobility units (EMUs) for suit donning. Finally, the crew reviewed procedures and participated in a procedures conference with ground teams to finalize EVA operations.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Swap: Today, the crew configured air ducting and low temperature loop (LTL) flow to swap from the P6 to the S6 CCAA in the Lab. The THC System is comprised of CCAA and Inter-module ventilation (IMV). The CCAA circulates, cools, and dehumidifies air in the Lab, Node 2, Node 3, and the A/L.

