
Cygnus Rendezvous and Capture:  This morning the crew monitored the Cygnus approach from the Cupola Robotic Workstation and successfully captured Cygnus using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at approximately 5:19am CST.  The Ground Robotics team maneuvered Cygnus into position to inspect the Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM), and berthed Cygnus onto the Node-1 Nadir Active CBM.  Later, Lindgren removed the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) from the Node-1 Nadir hatch window.  Kelly and Yui performed a leak check and configured the vestibule for ingress.  Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) removal and hatch opening/ingress are scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, December 10th.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly continued his week-long Flight Day 240 daily saliva collection and also made a urine collection.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
NeuroMapping: Yui completed a NeuroMapping Neurocognitive test on a Human Research Facility laptop.  The Neuromapping experiment studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking; as well as measuring how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from those possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from crewmembers returning from a long-duration spaceflight suggests that movement control and cognition are affected in microgravity.
 
Microbiome, Telomeres and Salivary Markers: Lindgren collected ambient blood samples to support Microbiome, Telomeres and Salivary Markers.  Yui and Kelly collected saliva samples to support Yui’s R-0 session and Kelly’s Flight Day 240 session of Microbiome.  Kelly and Yui each completed Salivary Markers Health Questionnaires.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).  Telomeres investigates how telomeres and telomerase are affected by space travel.  Salivary Markers data will be used to identify any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system.
 
Sleep Log:  Kornienko recorded a Sleep Log entry today after waking. The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 

