
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L): The crew performed the Humidifier Setup for CBEF Incubator Unit and inserted the LTL distribution box into the SAIBO rack. The crew then performed a setup of the Saibo Rack to a nominal configuration including connecting the CBEF Video Cable to IPU and sealed the CBEF-SAIBO sealing with Aluminium tape.  The Ground performed a checkout of the systems. Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded an Astronaut log. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed blood, saliva, and urine sample collections. The crew also performed the setup for the Fluid Shifts Dilution Measures. Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Systems:
SpX-19 Launch:  SpX-19 successfully launched for Cape Canaveral, Florida today at approximately 11:29 CT. The Dragon vehicle separation was nominal along with the Solar Array deployment. Dragon is scheduled to arrive at ISS on December 8.
SpX-19 Dragon Preparations: Today, the ISS crew completed Dragon Off-set Grapple On-Board Training (OBT) activity in preparation for the upcoming Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Dragon vehicle capture. Prior to the OBT, the crew calibrated the external cameras utilized by the Robotic Work Station (RWS) video overlays in preparation for the SpX-19 Dragon vehicle capture. Currently, SpX-19 mission was launched today, December 5, and will arrive at the ISS on December 8.  Yesterday’s launch attempt was scrubbed due to high winds at the launch pad. Other preparatory activities included the crew gathering up hardware for the Dragon Vestibule Outfitting activity that is planned for later on in the week. 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance:  Today, the ISS crew completed the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) quarterly maintenance which included inspection of the X-rotation dashpots, cycling the main arm through full range of motion, and applying grease to the ARED rails and rollers, which is done every 90 days. The crew noted that while wiping the rails, there was some minor and expected dust accumulation. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLVTA):  Following the AMS EVA3, the ISS crew observed a ~10ml water leak coming from the EMU 3004 suit while doffing the suit.  Since then, the crew and ground teams have performed some troubleshooting and determined that the WLVTA remove and replace was prudent for future EVAs.  Therefore, today the ISS crew completed remove and replace of the EMU 3004 Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLTVA) in order to restore EMU 3004 to nominal operations. 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Brine Filter:  As part of regular maintenance, the ISS crew opened up the UPA Fill Drain Valve Enclosure and removed the installed/old Brine Filter and replaced it with a new Brine Filter. Brine Filters are replaced every 60 days.

