
Microbiome: Cristoforetti collected saliva and completed a questionnaire survey in support of the Microbiome investigation. The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
3D Printing in Zero-G:  Cristoforetti removed and stowed two 3D printed coupons today.  The 3D printing in Zero–G technology demonstration experiment aims to validate extrusion-based additive manufacturing technology’s ability to function in a micro-gravity environment.
Skin-B:  Cristoforetti conducted her first Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Status:  Virts and Wilmore performed troubleshooting on the CDRA front bed air leak, which was observed yesterday after the bed was cleaned and reassembled. An O-ring gasket in the front bed was found to be pinched and was subsequently replaced. Once the seal was replaced, the bed was reassembled, installed in the rack and Ground teams activated the hardware and began a gross leak check.  A 24 hour fine leak check will be performed overnight.  The crew was ahead of the timeline today and completed all the CDRA activities that were on the timeline for tomorrow.
Service Module Voltage/Current Stabilizer [CHT] Testing:  Samokutyaev continued testing of the Service Module CHTs.  The goal of CHT testing is to assess their performance by capturing high speed 2 channel oscilloscope electrical current data at the input (ISS Primary Power 151-160VDC) and output (28VDC) of each CHT simultaneously over a 4 day period, while forcing them into different modes, “Current Regulation” and “Voltage Regulation”.

