
Rodent Research-8 (RR-8): Today crewmembers stowed the two Rodent Research-7 Habitats and then installed Rodent Research-8 Habitats 1 and 3 in preparation for SpX-16 arrival. The RR-8 investigation utilizes mice flown aboard the ISS, and maintained on Earth, to investigate the physiology of aging in response to microgravity and the role of aging in the onset and progression of disease.
Marrow: A crewmember performed breath and ambient air sample collections. Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Effect of Long Duration Hypogravity on the Perception of Self-Motion (VECTION): Crewmembers deployed the VECTION hardware and performed experiment sessions. Data was downlinked to the ground. The objective of The Effect of Long Duration Hypogravity on the Perception of Self-Motion (VECTION) study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Multi-use Variable-g Processing Facility Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MVP Cell-05): Today a crewmember mixed control and experiment samples within the portable glove bag. Eight experiment samples were inserted into the MVP centrifuge facility to simulate 0.7-g’s. The four control samples were stowed for return. MVP Cell-05 investigates the complex process of cement solidification. There have been a number of studies of the potential for making and using concrete on extraterrestrial bodies, but as of yet, no actual tests in a microgravity environment have been performed. Detailed microstructural evaluation of the samples represents the first step toward such implementation.
SpaceX (SpX)-16 Dragon On-Board Training: In preparation for this weekend’s capture of SpX-16 Dragon, the crew utilized the Robotic Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) to practice free drift timing, malfunction response, and nominal rate approaches. Dragon capture is planned for Saturday, December 8 at 5:00AM CT.
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) 3003 and 3008 Loop Scrub, and Iodination: Following yesterday’s EMU On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV), the crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Return Grille Cleaning: As part of routine maintenance, the crew removed return grille mesh covers and cleaned inside of the grilles within the JEM and Japanese Experiment Logistics Module-Pressurized Section (JLP).

