
Thermolab Control Unit Battery Compartment Repair:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio successfully repaired the battery compartment of the Thermolab Control Unit which is used to support ESA’s Circadian Rhythms experiment. Wakata will be scheduled Friday for his Circadian Rhythms session.
Cosmo Shoot Live Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event:  FE-6 Wakata set up the JAXA 4K camera and then he and FE-3 Hopkins performed a series of activities for a Live PAO event from the Cupola with NHK. Scenes during the event included night views of Japan and Wakata within the Cupola.
ISS Emergency Drill:  All six crewmembers participated in an ISS emergency drill and debrief.  The crew used the onboard simulator to guide their response towards two separate emergency cases (smoke within Node 2 and rapid depress within the Service Module). The purpose of this drill was to practice ISS emergency responses based on information provided by the simulator. The crew physically translates through ISS to appropriate locations in order to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces. They also practiced procedure execution and associated decision making, all while exercising communication skills with MCC-H and MCC-M.
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Hardware Fault:  Today Node 3 CDRA experienced a hardware fault associated with its Fan Motor. Ground teams are currently investigating the issue and working on a forward plan. The LAB CDRA is currently off, however is available if required to manage ppCO2 levels within ISS.
Sabatier Accumulator Manual Purges: In an ongoing effort to troubleshoot water within Sabatier, FE-3 Hopkins and FE-5 Mastracchio performed four separate accumulator purges of CO2 and remaining water. The 4 purge attempts performed today resulted in decreasing quantities of water in each instance. Additional purges have been placed on hold until the Node 3 CDRA hardware fault is resolved.  Sabatier uses a catalyst that reacts with carbon dioxide and hydrogen, both byproducts of current life-support systems onboard the ISS in order to produce water and methane.

