
Biochemical Profile:  Lindgren continued his Return minus 14 (R-14) blood and urine collections and Yui his R-14 saliva collection for the Biochem Profile investigation.  Samples were stowed in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
 
Ocular Health:  Lindgren and Yui continued their Flight Day 120 Ocular Health activities by performing their Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and fundoscopy, with Kelly acting as the Crew Medical Officer.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Veggie (Veg-01):  Lindgren refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water.  The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly completed his Flight Day 240 saliva collection, stowing samples in a MELFI.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
EXPRESS (EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station) Rack 3 Laptop Software Load:  Kelly supported the ongoing software updates to ISS EXPRESS Rack laptops by copying a software load to the EXPRESS Rack 3 laptop.  These software updates include enhanced security with the Windows 7 operating system, new features and support for new capabilities.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today after waking.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Habitability:  Today Kelly documented his recent observations related to human factors and habitability for the Habitability investigation.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Mid-Increment Debrief Questionnaires:  As part of Kelly’s half way point into his yearlong mission onboard ISS, he answered questions from Logistics & Maintenance and Medical Operations questionnaires.  The answers will then be downlinked to the ground in order to assist ground teams and future crews.
 
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout:  In preparation for Cygnus berthing on Sunday December 6th, Yui  installed the CBCS System onto the Node 1 Nadir Hatch.  Following the installation Yui worked with ground teams in order to successfully checkout the system.  The checkout involved routing the video from the camera to the Cupola Robotics Work Station (RWS) monitors and the ground.  Video from the CBCS is used to aid the crew during Visiting Vehicle mating operations.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Yui continued to pack his personal items in preparation for his crews return to earth onboard Soyuz 43 (43S) on December 11th. The items will be returning by way of 43S, SpaceX-8, and SpaceX-9.
 
Sokol Suit Leak Check:  This morning the 43S crew performed a nominal Sokol suit leak check.  Prior to the leak check, they reported a light “burning” odor in the 43 Soyuz, later classified as a “plastic” odor coming from one of the panels.  Compound Specific Analyzer – Combustion Products (CSA-CP) readings were zero.  Russian specialists are investigating.
 
Kurs Loopback Test:   Today MCC-M performed a test of the FGB KURS-P with the 43S Kurs-A.  FGB Kurs semi-set 1 passed the test, but semi-set 2 was not successful.  Further testing has been deferred pending investigation by Russian specialists.
 

