
Payloads:
Biological Research In Canisters-26 (BRIC-26): BRIC-26 hardware was inserted into the BRIC-LED facility and activated to begin the experiment. Previous research shows that exposure to microgravity affects microbial characteristics such as virulence and environmental resistance, but the molecular mechanisms underlying these changes are unclear. BRIC-26 measures the effect of exposure to microgravity on three fundamental genetic processes and their interactions in the bacteria Bacillus subtilis. Results could provide insight into how the interaction of DNA and environment affects gene expression and, ultimately, the observable characteristics in an organism.
Fluids Integrated Rack/Flow Boiling and Condensation Experiment (FIR/FBCE): The crew gained access to the FIR rack, and then refilled the test fluid reservoir with n-perfluorohexane (n-PFH). FBCE seeks to validate a model for flow boiling critical heat flux (CHF) and develop an integrated two-phase flow boiling and condensation facility for the ISS. Data from microgravity and the ground are compared to determine the influence of various forces and processes needed for gravity-independent flow boiling and condensation. Results could support development of boilers and heat exchangers that work in both microgravity and partial gravity.
Lumina: The Lumina experiment hardware was power cycled to prepare it to handle large file transfers, and a data transfer was initiated. The Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-rays, X-rays, photons or neutrons.
NanoRacks Module-51: The final operations were performed for the remaining experiments in the NG-18 NanoRacks Module-51, and the SD Card was prepared for return. The original experiments in Module-51 included plant growth, Haloarchea growth, and worm composting. NanoRacks Modules allow experimenters and students to perform extended on-orbit operations using space-proven hardware. Each individual module houses a unique experiment or set of experiments. Anything approved for transport to ISS can be incorporated into a module, representing any field of science.
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems BioScience-15 (STaARS BS-15): The crew retrieved the six STaARS BS-15 sample plates from frozen storage, allowed them to thaw, and then placed them in an ambient temperature location to begin the experiment. The Impact of the Aequor Biofilm in Prevention of Harmful Contamination of Water from Associated Microbial Growth in Microgravity (STaARS BioScience-15) evaluates a new treatment for eliminating biofilms that is safe for crew members and equipment on the ISS. Biofilms or surface-associated bacterial communities represent a challenge on the space station. Previous research has shown that spaceflight can increase formation of biofilms and change their structure. A better understanding of these microbial communities in space is crucial for the success of future missions.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub: The crew initiated the ionic and particulate filtering of EMU 3004, EMU 3013, and Airlock cooling water loops. Once complete, the crew re-configured EMU 3004 and EMU 3013 for iodination. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring science experiments and hardware from the SpX-26 cargo vehicle to the ISS. SpX-26 is schedule to remain at the ISS until January 11th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
EDV Drain to Resupply Tank (RST) using Urine Transfer System (UTS): The crew set up the drain of a Brine EDV to a RST using the Brine Transfer Hose. The crew then swapped EDVs and performed another drain to the RST. Following that task, the crew set up drain of the installed Recycle Tank via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a RST using UTS. Finally the crew repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill, swapped the Offload EDV, and configured the UPA Fill Drain Valve for UPA processing.

