
Payloads:
Human Research Facility Veggie Facility (HRF Veg): Profile of Mood States (POMS) short form questionnaires was completed.  The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System investigation is a phased research project that includes Veg-04A, Veg-04B, Veg-05, and HRF Veg. This work addresses the need for a system to produce healthy, fresh food on future long-duration exploration missions to supplement the standard pre-packaged astronaut diet. HRF Veg uses psychological surveys and crew evaluations of the flavor and appeal of plants grown for other investigations on the ISS to focus on the overall behavioral health benefits to crew members of having various plants and fresh food in space.
Neural Integration System (NIS):  Samples were setup in the Confocal Space Microscope for observations. First feeding and fixation for Micro-G and 1-G samples in the CBEF-L was performed. Effect of the Space Environment on the NIS and aging of the Model Animal C. elegans (NIS) uses this nematode to examine how microgravity affects the nervous system. Previous space experiments have shown that C. elegans experiences muscle atrophy as well as reduced motor activity and metabolism in microgravity. Research also has shown that space can affect the nervous system and neural networks may transmit the effects of microgravity throughout the body. Results could support development of countermeasures to protect crew members on future space missions and contribute to better health for Earth’s aging population.
Veg-05 Light Meter Install:  A light meter was installed into the Veggie Facility to obtain accurate light measurements and to allow light setting adjustments for both Veggie Locker-1 and Veggie Locker-3 in preparation for Veg-05.  The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet may need to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the ISS to help meet this need, and leafy greens have successfully been grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-05 expands crop variety to dwarf tomatoes and focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on fruit production, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Pore Formation and Mobility Investigation-Asymmetric Sawtooth and Cavity-Enhanced Nucleation-Driven Transport (PFMI-ASCENT): The PFMI Laptop was setup for high-speed camera control.  PFMI-ASCENT demonstrates a passive cooling system for electronic devices in microgravity using a micro structured surface. When fluids boil over flat heated surfaces in microgravity, vapor bubbles grow larger in size, causing poor heat transfer that can lead to damage of devices. Adding microscopic ratchets on the surface may passively enable mobility of vapor bubbles and prevent this damage.
Systems:
On-board Training (OBT) EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session: The crew completed the training and review sessions for the 3A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) using the OBT guide for ROBoT simulation setup/reconfigs. Each crew member role-played their assigned roles during the EVA focusing on communication, clearances, and abort/terminate plan. The crew then participated in a robotics procedure conference with ground teams.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge: The crew recharged the EMU feedwater tanks with iodinated water from the Payload Water Reservoir (PWR). A small quantity of water was dumped into a Contingency Water Container (CWC) from the feedwater tanks to provide ullage for condensate collection during the next EMU pre-breathe. The EMU is the suit that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for a crewmember during an (EVA).

