ISS On-Orbit Status 12/03/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Saturday – Crew rest day.
 
 After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 At wake-up, CDR Burbank completed his 5th post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 CDR Burbank, FE-1 Shkaplerov &amp; FE-2 Ivanishin joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab. Since this was the last scheduled round of Housekeeping for Exp-29, Mike &amp; Satoshi paid special attention to some safeguarding issues to ensure a good configuration in the unlikely event of station decrewing (failure of 28S crew arriving): Flammable materials securely stowed away from UOPs (Utility Outlet Panels), Rack Power Outlets, and Power Strips, no loose items that could become free-floaters during nominal dynamic events, ventilation diffusers clear of stowage, and HEPA filters vacuum-cleaned.]
 
 As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton &amp; Anatoly completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM. Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.
 
 Dan meanwhile conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
 Shkaplerov completed the daily routine servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of theKTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV,KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 The CDR filled out his 2nd weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer). [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software. Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins. The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health. Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 After Burbank had conducted the pre-exercise inspection of the ARED advanced resistive exercise device deferred from yesterday, the ground gave the Go-ahead for using the machine. [The inspection was intended for the machine’s yoke beam and seat track interface after the recent unisolated ARED exercise by the crew on 11/26 (which did no apparent damage).Specifically, the ARED VIS (Vibration isolation System) lock pins had been erroneously installed during exercise. The crew then executed two sets of unisolated ARED exercise. After reviewing the ARED configuration and associated exercise, engineers gave a GO for continued use of ARED. The ARED hardware already has placards to preclude unisolated exercise. Given the vibration data and crew report, reconstruction of the induced vehicle loads by S&amp;M (Structures &amp; Mechanics) was undertaken by the engineers. Preliminary conclusion was that no load limits were violated; ISS lifetime impacts were under review.]
 
 Before exercising on the US T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill, the two Russian crewmembers, Anton &amp; Anatoly, reviewed the use of the machine as required of each new crewmember prior to the first physical exercised session, and observed Dan Burbank working out on the device.
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).
 
 At ~8:10am EST, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 CDR &amp; FE-2 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) on today’s schedule, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Anatoly at ~5:30am, Dan at ~11:35pm EST.
 
 Tasks listed for Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
 <ul><li>A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for Arenal Volcano. Poas Volcano, Galeras Volcano, Colombia, Volcano Hudson, Volcano Cerro Hudson, Chile, Volcano Kilauea, Hawaii, and the glaciers of Patagonia, <li>A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-east Atlantic, South-Eastern Pacific, and the south-west Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, <li>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), and <li>Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.
 </li></li></li></li></ul>
 WRM Update: A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit. [The new card (29-0008A) lists 32 CWCs (535.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (6 CWCs with 234.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria; 2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 19.1 L), 7 empty bags; 3. Iodinated water (11 CWCs with 186.4 L; also 3 expired bags with 59.1 L); 4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and 5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush). Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents. Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources. These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 GHF Checkout: On 12/1, JAXA ground controllers began an extensive checkout of the GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) payload on the Kobairo Rack in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) which will continue through the next 14 days.
 
 VolSci Deferral: The planned Voluntary Weekend Science activity for Dan Burbank in the JAXA JPM with the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment) payload was deferred to some later date.
 
 
