
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Twelve Actiwatch Plus devices were removed from the USB Hubs connected to the Human Research Facility (HRF) PC on the HRF Rack. The crew verified that the device displays matched the expected state of the hardware, and returned them to each crewmember for use or had the units stowed in the Actiwatch Plus Kit. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Cerebral Ageing: Media exchange and termination was performed on designated Bio Cell samples with G preservative. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space on cerebral organoids, i.e., 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain, at the molecular and cellular level.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The Mobil-O-Graph hardware was donned and a 13-hour blood pressure data recording session was initiated in support of the CIPHER study. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The FOP-2 hardware was installed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox. Calibration of the new unit will begin tomorrow. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham contact was initiated with Orangeburg Christian Academy in Orangeburg, SC, USA. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Internal Ball Camera 2: Off-nominal Checkout #4 was performed on the JEM Internal Ball Robot Camera-2. JEM Internal Ball Camera 2 demonstrates technology for automating video and photos of research activities. Crew time is one of the most valuable resources on the ISS, and many simple, repetitive tasks could be automated. This frees up crew time for more important activities.
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor-2: The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor Locker-2 was installed into Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (ExPRESS) Rack 8 Locker 8 and powered on. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor investigation demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph mass spectrometer instrument aboard the ISS to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement. The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team.
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems, Inc.-1 Experiment Facility (STaARS-1 EF): The remaining two STaARS Experiment Controllers were removed from the STaARS-1 EF. STaARS-1 EF is a temperature controlled (18°C-37°C) experiment facility that provides the environmental control, power and communication required for efficient and effective biotechnology and life science research on the ISS.
Systems:
In-Flight-Maintenance (IFM) UPA Hose Coupler Quick-Disconnect (QD) Cleaning and Purge: UPA hose couplers A and B were prepared for stowage before eventual return on SpX-29.  The crew cleaned the QDs of the couplers using self-wetting swabs and purged the couplers with water and air.
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies to and from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December.
