
Payloads:
Bio-Monitor:  A crewmember performed the setup and donned the Bio-Monitor Garment and Headband and initiated a 48-hour data session.  Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crew member daily activities. 
Flow Boiling Condensation Experiment (FBCE):  The FIR was configured for FBCE operations, which included translating out the Optics Bench, installing FBCE hardware, translating in the Optics Bench without making connections, and buttoning up the rack doors until next access for Part 2.  FBCE seeks to validate a model for flow boiling Critical Heat Flux (CHF) and develop an integrated two-phase flow boiling and condensation facility for the ISS. Data from microgravity and the ground are compared to determine the influence of various forces and processes needed for gravity-independent flow boiling and condensation. Results could support development of boilers and heat exchangers that work in both microgravity and partial gravity.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4):  Particles were redistributed in the vial assembly which was followed by activation of the InSPACE-4 equipment and configuration of the MSG facility for downlink. InSPACE-4 operations run #80 was then initiated.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Manufacturing Device (MAND):  The third of six 0-degree panel prints for materials testing was successfully printed, removed, and stowed.  A crewmember also cleaned the extruder nozzle.  MAND enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives.  Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location.  MAND is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Vascular Aging:  A crewmember performed Echo scans in the resting position using Echo hardware.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems: 
Crew Dragon Maintenance Operations: Today the crew is completing several activities for the Crew Dragon, beginning with a hand held gas detector battery install, calibration, measurement collection, and troubleshooting, followed by photo capture of fasteners in Dragon Locations 3 and 8 and emergency hardware configurations. The crew then participated in a crew briefing for the Dragon under floor inspection, which consisted of Q and A with ground experts, and was then proceeded by the execution of the under floor inspection by the crew. Finally, the crew completed the Crew Dragon Forward Monthly Portable Computer System (PCS) checkout, which is a recurring monthly power up and check-out of PCS staged in Crew Dragon to verify functionality.
On-Board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Drill: The crew executed training scenarios for Emergency Response On-Board ISS, followed by conferences to discuss the OBT results. The objectives for this training were as follows:

Practice of ISS Emergency Response with Crew and Ground roles based on info provided by simulator displays
Physically translate through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces
Practice procedure execution and associated decision  making based on cues provided by simulator
Practice communication and coordination with MCC-H and MCC-M as required for a given emergency scenario


