
SpaceX (SpX)-16 Launch: SpX-16 launched today from Kennedy Space Center at 12:16 PM CT. Its rendezvous with ISS and capture is planned for Saturday, December 8 at 5:00AM CT. SpX-16 Dragon is bringing over 2500 kg of pressurized and unpressurized cargo to ISS. 
NanoRacks External Platform Inserts (NREP): Today, the Ground Robotics Team utilized the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to relocate the NREP platform and installed it into the Japanese Module Exposed Facility #4 (EFU-4). The NREP is loaded with the newly installed sortie #4 science consisting of the Hyperspectral Earth Imaging System Trial (HEIST) investigation. HEIST a compact hyperspectral sensor system for commercial Earth observation. The NanoRacks External Platform is a compact research platform fitted for versatile use on the exterior of the ISS. 
Behavioral Core Measures: Crewmembers completed journal questionnaires for the Behavioral Core Measures study. Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) examines an integrated, standardized suite of measurements for its ability to rapidly and reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight.
Standard Measures: Crewmembers filled out questionnaires for the Standard Measures study. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV): Crewmembers David Saint-Jacques and Anne McClain took body measurements, resized, and donned their EMU suits (3003 and 3008) to ensure proper fit. Each EMU contains exchangeable components allowing each astronaut to adjust EMU fit to their individual preference.
Departure Preparation: In preparation for their return to earth on December 20, the 55S Crew gathered and packed crew provisions. The packed items will be returned by way of SpX-16 and Soyuz 55S.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Intra-Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: As part of routine maintenance, the crew removed and cleaned the JEM IMV starboard aft fan and grille.
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus Hatch Closure: Following the unloading of all critical items from Cygnus over the past several weeks, today the hatch was closed and will remain in this configuration until after the SpX-16 Dragon mission.

