
Everywear:  Today a crewmember configured the Smartshirt for exercise and then donned it for an exercise session with the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) while data was recorded by the iPad Everywear application.  Everywear is an ambulatory data collection system that makes use of wearable sensors connected to an iPad tablet computer that is synchronized with ground computers. This easy-use system seeks to demonstrate the benefits of extensive physiology data collection for both science and medical follow-up purposes, by improving usability for crew members on the ISS. The main advantage of Everywear is the ability to aggregate data from different tools, but it also brings with it a simplification in procedures for astronauts. This is a versatile device that can cover a wide variety of needs with a tailored data collection capability that allows a unified treatment of data. The use of this personal assistant brings a very important gain in crew-time availability for ISS crew members. 
Vascular Echo:  A crewmember performed a Vascular Echo resting ultrasound and blood pressure measurements this morning.  With assistance from a ground remote guidance team, he scanned his neck, thigh and heart. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone.
Capillary Flow Experiment-2 (CFE-2): The crew set up and initiated test runs with the Interior Corner Flow 1 hardware in support of the CFE-2 Vane Gap experiment.  Because liquids behave differently in space than they do on Earth, containers that can process, hold or transport them must be designed to work in microgravity. The CFE-2 furthers research into the control of liquid behavior aboard spacecraft through wetting and container geometry. Vane Gap experiments identify the critical geometric wetting conditions of a vane structure that does not quite meet the container wall – a construct used in various fluid systems aboard spacecraft such as fuel tanks, thermal systems and water processors for life support.  The results of these tests may be used to improve the capability to quickly and accurately predict how related processes such as passive separation of gases from liquids in the absence of gravity occur. 
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N):  After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from the Russian crewmembers, a USOS crewmember deployed all 8 Space Bubble Detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation will be conducted by measuring neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Veg-03 Operations: The crew checked and photo-documented the status of the plants in the Veggie facility today.  The overall goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows using ‘Outredgeous’ Red Romaine lettuce.  Future long-duration missions into the solar system, will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which means growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments, but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and ISS made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the new Veggie hardware, which crew members will soon use to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables in space. Tests determine which types of microorganisms are present in space-grown cabbage, providing baseline data for future crop-growing efforts.  Behavioral health surveys assess the impact of growing plants on crew morale and mood.
Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Coolant Refill:  Earlier today the crew set up the FSS Fluids Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) and refilled the LAB Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) accumulator.  Once filled, the crew relocated the FSS to the Columbus module and refilled the Columbus Water Pump Assembly (WPA) accumulator.  Then the FSS was used to fill the JEM ITCS Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL), followed by the filling of a pair of dry ITCS lines in Node 1/Node 3. 
Port Solar Array Mast Imagery:  The crew completed a photo-survey of the port solar array masts by capturing a series of images from the Docking Compartment (DC)-1 Port window of the all four port mast structures from tip to base.  The ground is working on a plan to quantify and mitigate the risk of solar array mast structural failure due to Micro Meteoroid Orbital Debris (MMOD). Taking these images will provide an outstanding base configuration to compare MMOD strike probability against actuality.
Port 1 Radiator Imagery:  The crew performed a routine survey of the P1 Radiator from the DC-1 Port window.  During the task the radiator was rotated to two different angles to photograph both sides of the Port Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ). 

