
Payloads
Cardinal Heart: The crew deployed and used the Life Science Glovebox to change the media in one of four Cardinal Heart Tissue Habitats. Effect of Microgravity on Drug Responses Using Engineered Heart Tissues (Cardinal Heart) studies the effects of change in gravitational force on cardiovascular cells at the cellular and tissue level using Engineered Heart Tissues (EHTs). Microgravity significantly affects heart tissues that perform work and exert an opposite force to gravity and is known to cause molecular and structural abnormalities in cells and tissues that can lead to disease. The investigation could provide new understanding of similar heart issues on Earth and help identify new treatments.
Rodent Research-10 (RR-10): The crew transferred rodents from the SpX-21 Dragon into the ISS Rodent Habitats. Tissue degeneration and failure of tissue to regenerate normally in microgravity are becoming increasing concerns for sustaining life in space. The CDKN1a/p21 pathway is known to be a key molecular mechanism involved in inhibiting tissue regenerative processes, and scientific evidence suggest it is required for the arrest of regenerative bone formation observed in microgravity.
Space Organogenesis: The crew performed Ssample inserts and medium exchanges for the Space Organogenesis experiment. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell culture on Earth needs supportive materials or forces to achieve 3D growth, but in microgravity cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions without those devices.
Vascular Echo: The crew completed the 13-hour data collection period using the Blood Pressure monitoring hardware and downloaded the data to the ground. Cardiac and Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Systems
Short Extravehicular Mobility Unit (SEMU) Launch Enclosure Briefing: FE-12 participated in a briefing which covered preparing EMU 3008 for return, removal of EMU 3015 from the SLE and installing EMU 3008 into the SLE in the Dragon cabin. This swap is planned for tomorrow. 
Cargo Transfer Ops: The crew continued transferring cargo from the Dragon vehicle to the ISS.

