ISS On-Orbit Status 12/10/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Saturday – Crew rest day
 
 After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 At wake-up, CDR Burbank completed his 6th post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 CDR Burbank, FE-1 Shkaplerov &amp; FE-2 Ivanishin joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab. Since this was the last scheduled round of Housekeeping for Exp-29, Mike &amp; Satoshi paid special attention to some safeguarding issues to ensure a good configuration in the unlikely event of station decrewing (failure of 28S crew arriving): Flammable materials securely stowed away from UOPs (Utility Outlet Panels), Rack Power Outlets, and Power Strips, no loose items that could become free-floaters during nominal dynamic events, ventilation diffusers clear of stowage, and HEPA filters vacuum-cleaned.]
 
 As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton &amp; Anatoly completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM. Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.
 
 Using the two CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) units #1043 &amp; #1048, Burbank took standard oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM and COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory). [O2 measurements in COL: 22.1% (both instruments), in SM: 22.2% (#1043) &amp; 22.1% (#1048).]
 
 After yesterday transferring remaining water from the Progress 45P (#413) BV2 tank to a newly-built EDV container, Anton Shkaplerov replaced the usual A-R water transfer hose with a T2PrU air line and started the standard bladder compression &amp; leak check of the BV2 water tank to get it ready for urine transfer. [Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 &amp; BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic. The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before urine transfers, i.e., with empty tanks, the bladders are expanded against the tank walls and checked for hermeticity.]
 
 Anatoly Ivanishin performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 As today’s chosen VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity, Dan Burbank worked in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) on the JAXA MSPR (Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack), setting up the G1 video camcorder to cover his subsequent steps, then performed a checkout of the end-to-end video communication between the ground and the VRU (Video Recording Unit) Channel 1 &amp; Channel 2 via the MSPR MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and finally closed out and shut down the equipment.
 
 At ~6:30am EST, FE-1 Shkaplerov had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 At ~8:10am, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~10:10am, Ivanishin &amp; Shkaplerov joined for a Russian PAO downlink, extending messages of greetings to three events: (1) to the participants of a celebration dedicated to the 50th anniversary of G. S. Titov’s spaceflight, (2) New Year TV Greetings to RussNeft Oil and Gas Company, and (3) to the participants at the VIIIth Russian National Conference “The First Steps In Science”. [On 12/15, the Cosmonautics Federation of Russia is conducting a celebration gathering of employees and veterans of rocket space industry and space forces, youth and students, dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the first 24-hour space flight performed by their fellow countryman Gherman Stepanovich Titov, to take place in the Social Culture Center at the Russian Social University.-- RussNeft Oil and Gas Co. asked for the crew downlink to wish their employees Happy New Year 2012.-- The VIIIth Russian Children Conference "The First Steps in Science " will take place from 12/21 through 12/ 23 at the Nepetsino Children’s Recreation Facility of the Russian Federation President’s Administration. Children of Russian Federation aged 7 to 14 will take part in this conference. The purpose of such events is to engage children and youth in scientific research and successfully implement main government youth education policy, preserve and replenish state intellectual potential, provide technological security. More than ten thousand middle and high school students, young scientists and specialists from various regions of Russia are participating in these events on annual basis. “…Get motivated by the example of Yuri Alexeyevich, study science, get involved in sports, develop you spiritual side. We’ll be happy to welcome you in our ranks.”]
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR).
 
 Tasks listed for Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
 <ul><li>A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for Vulcan Cordon-Kaul, and the glaciers of Patagonia, <li>A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, <li>A video recording of New Year Greetings to be used in a joint project of Roskosmos TV Studio with Carousel TV Channel for children ages 8 to 12 years, the “It’s Time to go to space!” program, which has a segment where Russian cosmonauts are discussing their work &amp;, answer viewers’ questions (currently they are working on a New Year episode). The footage was then downlinked to TsUP-Moscow. <li>Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.
 </li></li></li></li></ul>
 GHF Checkout: On 12/1, JAXA ground controllers continued the extensive checkout of the GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) payload on the Kobairo Rack in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) which began on 12/1 and is continuing for about 14 days.
 
 ISS Reboost Update: A one-burn reboost of the ISS was performed yesterday as planned at 2:50pm EST using the two KD engines of the SM’s ODU (Integrated Propulsion System) for a burn duration of 1m 22s, achieving a Delta-V of 1.33 m/s (planned: 1.3 m/s), increasing mean altitude by 2.36 km (planned: 2.3 km). After the burn, ISS was at 393.1 km mean altitude, with 413.4 km apogee height and 372.8 perigee height. The purpose of the reboost, the 2nd of 2, was to set up proper phasing for 29S launch &amp; rendezvous. This was also the 2nd time the US SIGI (Space Integrated GPS/Inertial Navigation System) accelerometers were used for closed loop guidance of the reboost, and all worked well. The reboost was within 3% of the target burn, i.e., an excellent performance. After the reboost, SM thrusters were again connected to the FGB propellant tanks to handle attitude control and desaturation firings.
 
