
Payloads:
Cerebral Ageing: Media exchanges were performed on the experiment BioCells. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space of cerebral organoids.  Cerebral organoids are 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain at the molecular and cellular level. Also included for analysis in this investigation are markers of cell stress, metabolism, and ageing in healthy control samples, and cerebral organoids with mutations that lead to accelerated ageing. With this investigation, the research team seeks to establish and validate a pipeline that can be used for experiments with human cells in future long-duration spaceflight.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
KEyence Research MIcroscope Testbed (KERMIT): Software loading to support later activities was initiated, but was not completed due the support systems and personnel being needed for other activities. This will be replanned, and the next use for the KERMIT is expected to be early next year. The KERMIT commercial microscope is an all-in-one fluorescence microscope system available for biological, physical, and material science research. KERMIT is housed in the Material Science Research Rack (MSRR) aboard the space station.
Plant Habitat: Preparation for the Plant Habitat-06 was continued with the opening of the CO2 gas bottle valve. This is one of the activities needed for the Plant Habitat-06 science activities scheduled to begin in the next few weeks.  Plants on Earth and in space must defend themselves from diseases. Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analyses indicate the adaptive response of plants rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Space Health: The experiment questionnaire was filled out, and the wearable sensor garment electrode gel was reapplied for the 48-hour data collection session.  The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew performed a VR Mental Care experiment session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
SpX-29 Undock preparation Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies to the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. A noise survey was also performed using the acoustic monitor within the SpX-29 vehicle. Data was downlinked to compare versus expected values of the cargo vehicle.  SpX-29 is scheduled to undock from the ISS no earlier than December 20th. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test: The crew performed eye exams with the support of the Station Support Computer (SSC) Client. Eye exams are performed regularly on board in order to test visual acuity, visual field, and contrast sensitivity. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. The physical test was followed by a crew vision questionnaire.
