
STaARS BioScience-4 (Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems): Today a crewmember removed four Experiment containers from the STaARS facility and inserted them into Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI-3) unit. The STaARS BioScience-4 investigation examines how oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) react to microgravity, specifically the rate at which the cells proliferate and differentiate in the microgravity environment.
Circadian Rhythms: A crewmember configured and donned the Circadian Rhythms hardware and initiated data collection. The hardware is to be worn for 3 days. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks.
SODI-DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument – Diffusion and Soret Coefficient): Today a crewmember performed the SODI-DSC hardware setup in the MSG Work Volume. The Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument – Diffusion and Soret Coefficient (SODI-DSC) experiment will study diffusion in six different liquids over time in the absence of convection induced by the gravity field.
MSFO-2 (Made In Space Fiber Optics 2): Today a crewmember installed the Made in Space Fiber Optics 2 hardware. The Optical Fiber Production in Microgravity (Made In Space Fiber Optics) investigation demonstrates the merits of manufacturing fiber optic filaments in microgravity. The fiber optic material chosen for this demonstration is ZBLAN.
Express Rack 9B Rack Power Switch Data Gathering: Today, the crew powered on Express Rack 9B in Columbus to gather data on an unusual data signature seen on previous activations. When the Express Rack 9B rack power switch is turned on, the data appears immediately on some ground displays, but data that follows an alternate path is delayed.  Today’s activity will collect data dumps to understand where the delay is occurring in the alternate data path.

