
Acoustic Diagnostics: The crew set up the appropriate hardware, performed the audio measurements, and used the EveryWear application to answer the questionnaires.  The investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-12 (J-SSOD-12) removal and JEMAL slide table repair:  The crew extended the JEM airlock (JEMAL) slide table into the ISS pressurized volume and performed the activities needed to remove the J-SSOD-12 hardware.  J-SSOD-12 successfully deployed its 3 satellites last month and this activity prepares us to install the NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) later in the week.  While the slide table was extended, the crew also performed repairs on the JEM Active Mechanism Tether Loop (JAT), and replaced a damaged helicoil on the JEM AL Slide Table Active Capture Mechanism.  The JEMAL allows items to be transferred from the Pressurized Module to the Exposed Facility where they can then be manipulated robotically.  The next planned operation for the JEMAL slide table is December 19 with the installation of the NanoRacks External Platform (NREP).
Rodent Research-19:  The crew performed routine habitat restocking and other activities to continue the RR-19 investigation.  Mighty Mice in Space: Preclinical Evaluation of a Broad Spectrum Myostatin Inhibitor to Prevent Muscle and Bone Loss Due to Disuse uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the myostatin (MSTN) and activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight.  It also looks at the effect on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
Time Perception: Using a head-mounted Oculus Rift display/headphones, a finger trackball, and support computer, the crew performed the Time Perception experiment sessions.  In this experiment, a program on the laptop induces visual and audio stimuli to measure a subject’s response to spatial and time perception in a microgravity environment. The experiment is broken into 7 tasks which look at time reproduction, reaction time, characterizing how long a minute is, and questionnaires. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination.
Systems:
Boeing OFT Preparations:  Today, the ISS prepared for the Boeing OFT mission arrival and performed a check-out of the commanding function of the CST-100 Command Panel PCS display.
SSC Battery Swap: The crew completed the change-out of the CMOS Battery on the ZBook Laptop. CMOS Battery swap will allow the BIOS settings and clock time to revert to default.

