
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Status:  Overnight, Robotic Flight Controllers attempted different techniques to move the Mobile Transporter (MT) to Worksite 4, none of which accomplished the task.  During these attempts, the team observed the Port Crew Equipment Translation Aid (CETA) Cart move slightly with the MT, while the Starboard CETA cart did not.  Therefore, the team is focusing on the possibility of a brake engagement associated with the Starboard CETA cart.  Disengaging the CETA cart brake will require an EVA.  Team 4 has been activated in order to plan for an EVA early next week in order to accomplish the task prior to 62P Docking on Wednesday.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Kelly and Kopra prepared for an EVA early next week by initiating charge cycles for the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA), Helmet Lights, Pistol Grip Tools (PGT), and Long Life Batteries (LLB).  Two D4 cameras were configured and Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFERs) were checked out.  In addition, the crew worked to resize Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs).  EMU 3010 was resized for Kelly and EMU 3003 was resized for Kopra.
 
NanoRacks Module Installations:  Kelly installed NanoRacks modules that arrived on the Orbital ATK-4 (OA-4) in a NanoRacks Platform-2 locker in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM).  These five modules contain a wide range of experiments developed by high school students, including water purification, protein crystallation, plant inoculation for disease protection, metal corrosion, etc.  NanoRacks Platforms provide power and data transfer capabilities for NanoRacks Modules.
 
Marrow:  Kelly retrieved air sampling hardware from the OA-4 vehicle for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow investigation.  Peake prepared and then temporarily stowed the hardware, which will be used to take breath and ambient air samples immediately after waking tomorrow.  The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on the bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
 
Cognition: Kopra performed his Flight Day 6 session of the Cognition experiment.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Journals: Kelly completed a Journals entry. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used by astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparations for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Veg-01:  Kelly refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water. The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Space Headaches:   Peake completed another Daily Space Headaches questionnaire as part of his week-long series.  The daily questionnaires are only scheduled immediately after arrival of a new crewmember to the ISS.  Weekly questionnaires will be completed in subsequent weeks.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 

