
Medical Consumables Tracker (MCT) Installation: The crew installed the HTV-6 delivered MCT hardware in the Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Resupply Stowage Rack (RSR). MCT uses Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) codes to track medicines and medical supplies on board the ISS. Ground managers will be able to track which medical supplies are being used, and how many remain. This tracking information will help teams determine how many medicines and supplies will be necessary for long-duration space missions. This investigation is expected to improve our ability to have the proper supplies available in the necessary quantities for ISS and long duration missions and help refine the use of RFID technology in tracking a large number of RFID tags in a small confined space. 
Japanese-Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) Installation:  Yesterday, the crew was unable to locate the Multi-Layered Insulation (MLI) required for protection of the J-SSOD and slide table. Ground teams were able to locate alternate MLI that could be used, and the crew completed J-SSOD installation operations this morning. The Slide Table was retracted back into the JEM Airlock and is currently being depressurized in preparations for satellite deployment on Monday. J-SSOD #5 contains one Cubesat, STARS-C(2U), which will conduct a technical demonstration of a tether extending system using a mother and daughter satellite.
Biolab Glovebox Health Check: The crew performed a periodic health check of the Biolab Glovebox seals and gloves including sensors for the fan status, delta pressure, temperature and relative humidity. This procedure can also be used to perform individual ground-only checks of the Biolab Glovebox pressure, temperature, relative humidity and fan status.
Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Communication Unit (CUCU) Redundant Power Cable Re-route: The crew rerouted the CUCU redundant power cable from Express Rack 2 to the Lab Deck 3 location in order to maintain two independent power sources for fault tolerance. This protects for a single upstream ISS Power failure removing all power to CUCU. The COTS UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) is used for space-to-space communication between Dragon and ISS during rendezvous. 

