
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L): The crew assisted with the check-out of the Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left (CBEF-L) Incubation Unit (IU) door sensor and CBEF-L IU2 door lock system. CBEF-L is a new JAXA subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the CBEF currently aboard the ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL) SCA exchange: The crew performed the activities needed to exchange the processed GEDS (Gravitational Effects on Distortion in Sintering) science sample cartridge assembly (SCA) with a new SCA.  This was accomplished successfully.  However, during the subsequently planned vacuum check, issues were experienced with the VRS (vacuum resource system) valve and the vacuum check was not completed. The ground teams will assess a forward plan, but there is no immediate impact to the science sample.  The science of liquid phase sintering is about 50 years old, but the practice dates from the 1400s when gold was used to bond platinum in Columbia and Ecuador. Future applications include use of liquid phase sintering as a means to perform in-space fabrication and repair, and for example using lunar regolith to fabricate structures on the moon or using metal powder to fabricate replacement components during extraterrestrial exploration. The MSL GEDS-German experiment focuses on determining the underlying scientific principles to forecast density, size, shape, and properties for liquid phase sintered bodies over a broad range of compositions in Earth-gravity (1g) and microgravity (μg) conditions.
Polymer Convection: The crew set up the Polymer Convection hardware in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and performed the sample processing per the plan.  All planned science samples were processed, however, only one of the two planned temperature profiles was able to be used.  The ground team reports they will still be able to get good science from the profile used and will know more when the processed samples are returned to the ground.  Polymer Convection examines the effect of gravity on formation and crystallization of Broadband Angular Selective Material (BASM). An optical material with the ability to control the reflection and absorption of light, BASM has applications in polymer packaging, optical films, solar power, and electronic displays. Improved fabrication methods could produce BASM films that are more durable and have better optical and mechanical properties.  Conducting this study in microgravity allows for a better understanding of gravity’s effect on convection and polymer crystallization in this particular multilayer fabrication process, and it may aid in determining the optimum fabrication condition, including temperature, which affects the density and viscosity of polymers, stretching speed, and orientations of the films.
Standard Measures: Using the data collection tool on an available SSC (Station Support Computer), the crew performed their post-sleep questionnaire.  The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
Boeing OFT Preparations:  Today, the ISS prepared for the Boeing OFT mission arrival and performed OFT pre-packing activities in support for future transfers. The crew also performed On-Board Training (OBT) for Starliner rendezvous and departure along with participating in a subsequent OBT conference. Currently, Starliner is scheduled to launch on December 20 and dock with the ISS on December 21. 
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection:  Today, the ISS crew performed the periodic Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection that included inspecting and photographing the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Pre-Breath Masks, and the Quick Don Mask (QDM) and Harness.  The PEPS inspection is designed to ensure that the ISS emergency equipment is in good working order.

