
51 Soyuz (51S) Undock and Landing Preparations:  The crew completed packing the cargo for return on 51S.  Randy Bresnik handed over command of the ISS to Alexander Misurkin. Following the Change of Command, the new Commander’s Soyuz crew became prime for emergencies.  Bresnik, Sergey Ryazanskiy, and Paolo Nespoli will undock from the ISS at 11:13 pm CST and will land at 2:37am CST tomorrow.  Following undock, the ISS will be in 3-crew operations until the arrival of 53S on December 19.
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) #13 Retrieval: Two canister bags containing protein samples were removed from the JAXA Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle 2 (J-FROST2) and handed over to a Russian crewmember for return on the 51S vehicle. The samples have been stowed in J-FROST2 for processing since their arrival on 68P.  PCG #13 contains protein samples prepared by Japanese and Russian researchers from universities, national research institutes, and the private sector. The purpose of this activity was to obtain high quality protein crystals in the microgravity environment at 20 degrees C for about 9 weeks. The results obtained by JAXA PCG #13 contribute to the development of drugs for multidrug-resistant bacteria, Alzheimer’s disease, muscular dystrophy and periodontitis. They will also aid in the development of a blood substitute and biosensor. 
Echo Commissioning:  The crew retrieved and setup the Echo hardware in the Columbus module to allow ground teams to perform a commissioning session on the main and backup hard disks for the Echo unit. The purpose of the ECHO investigation is to evaluate a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes to be controlled by flight controllers on the ground. Additionally, this investigation supports the commissioning of the Echo instrument, which is planned for use with the Vascular Echo experiment on ISS in the future. 
Lighting Effects Operations: After providing a sleep log entry to support the two-week sleep shift session, a 52S crewmember setup the Visual Performance Test hardware and performed a Numerical Verification Test and a Color Discrimination Test. The crewmember then configured the Light Meter hardware and obtained light meter readings from specified locations before downlinking the data. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. 
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections – Functional Immune: Today blood and saliva samples were collected from two 52S crewmembers and a 51S crewmember which concludes a five day Functional Immune session that began over the weekend. The samples support the mid-mission HRP compliment for the 52S crewmembers and the return minus zero day (R-0) compliment for the 51S crewmember. The Functional Immune investigation analyzes blood and saliva samples to determine the changes taking place in crewmembers’ immune systems during flight. The changes in the immune system are also compared with crewmembers’ self-reported health information. Results are expected to provide new insight into the possible health risks of long-duration space travel, including future missions to Mars, asteroids, or other distant destinations. 
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): Today a 51S crewmember completed his return minus seven day (R-7) FMS session, which was executed on a touchscreen tablet, where the subject performed a series of interactive tasks. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: Using the RED camera, the crew captured images and video footage of the Coast of Namibia, the Nile River, and the Tasmania Bass Strait. This investigtation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.
Space Headaches: The 52S crewmembers completed a weekly questionnaire for the Space Headaches investigation.  This experiment collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope Replacement: The crew performed a scheduled replacement of the ARED cable rope arm today, with no issues.  The new cable arm rope will stretch to its final configuration through several exercise sessions before bar exercises are performed. 

