
Molecular Muscle: Crewmembers removed the Molecular Muscle samples from the Kubik-5 facility and inserted the samples into the MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS). Telemetry data for Kubik-05 was downloaded and both the primary and back up units were deinstalled and stowed. The Molecular Muscle investigation examines the molecular causes of muscle abnormalities during spaceflight in order to establish effective countermeasures.
Microbial Tracking (MT) 2: Today a crewmember performed an extensive sample collection of ISS air sample and surface areas for the MT-2 study which will be placed in cold stowage and returned on Soyuz-55. MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time.
Micro-14: Today a crewmember removed the Micro-14 Group Activated Packets (GAPs 1,2,3) from the Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL-1) and used a hand-crack to terminate  GAP-3. All three GAPs were then stowed into MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS). The Micro-14 (Characterizing the Effects of Spaceflight on the Candida albicans Adaptation Responses) life science research mission will investigate and evaluate the responses of the Candida albicans microorganism to microgravity conditions and, in particular, to assess changes at the physiological, cellular, and molecular level and to characterize virulence factors.
Global Ecosystem Dynamics Investigation (GEDI): Ground operations used the ISS Remote Manipulator Arms (MSS and JEMRMS) to extract the GEDI hardware from the SPX-16 Dragon and install it onto the Japanese Exposed Module Facility (JEM EFU-4). Ground teams confirmed activation telemetry. The Global Ecosystem Dynamics Investigation (GEDI) provides high-quality laser ranging observations of the Earth’s forests and topography required to advance the understanding of important carbon and water cycling processes, biodiversity, and habitat.
Circadian Rhythms: Today a crewmember doffed the circadian Rhythms hardware and downlinked the telemetry data. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks.
On Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent Drill:  In preparation for their departure from the ISS on December 19, the 55S Crew completed a nominal descent and landing drill earlier this morning.  During this training, the crew was inside their Soyuz spacecraft reviewing and practicing undock and landing procedures.   

