
Significant Events:
Soyuz Thruster Test: This morning, the Russian crew completed a test of the 68S Soyuz thrusters. Performance was nominal and no issues were observed. Russian and NASA teams continue to work together to assess the vehicle.
Payloads:
ISS Ham Radio: A crewmember initiated ISS Ham contact with Maitland Air Cadet Association, Goderich, ON, Canada. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold conversations with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS): The PuFF Calibration Syringe was lubricated in order to maintain proper calibration data The PPFS provided by the European Space Agency (ESA) is new equipment added to the already developed European Pressurized Module (EPM) pool of instruments. The PPFS is an evolution to the existing Pulmonary Function System (PFS). The PPFS is the EPM contribution to NASA’s Human Research Facility (HRF) and supports a wide range of respiratory and cardiovascular measurements.
Sphere Camera-1: The Sphere Camera-1 Hardware was assembled and installed in Node 2. Sphere Camera-1 uses a commercial off-the-shelf ultra-high resolution digital movie camera with a wide angle lens to collect footage in microgravity and evaluate technical performance of the camera. Investigators plan to use results to design and develop subsequent cameras for testing and, ultimately, provide a product that could support groundbreaking imaging of space with greater resolution, detail, and sharpness than anything currently available commercially.
Systems:
On-board Training (OBT) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session: Today, the crew reviewed the 4A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) EVA procedure using the OBT guide for ROBoT simulation setup/reconfiguration. In this session each crewmember role-played their assigned roles during the EVA, with the focus placed on communication, clearances, and abort/termination plans. ROBoT was designed to provide the ISS on-orbit real-time operator-in-the-loop training capability for the Mobile Servicing System (MSS).
USOS EVA Preparation Activities: In preparation for the upcoming 4A IROSA EVA, the crew cleaned multiple Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) helmets, installed helmet lights, and performed a checkout of Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) powered hardware for glove heaters and EMU TV prior to EVA. During this EVA the EV crew will install a fourth IROSA to the 4A power channel on the port truss of the ISS in order to generate more power to the ISS.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect: Today, the crew collected water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight analysis. Analysis of the water samples collected during this activity will occur during separate activities later in the timeline. The ISS PWD has been designed to interface to US food/beverage packages and is located in the Galley Rack of Node 1. It receives water from the ISS Potable Water Bus and has the capability of dispensing hot and ambient temperature de-iodinated water.

