
External Thermal Control System (ETCS) Loop A Status:  ETCS Loop A is still operating without full temperature control.  The Loop A Interface Heat Exchangers (IFHX) are still bypassed and isolated, preventing internal heat rejection on loop A.  ETCS Loop B continues to operate nominally.  Due to the loss of heat rejection for the N2 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL), half of the power loads in the N2, JEM and Columbus modules have been powered down. Overnight, the suspect Flow Control Valve (FCV) was successfully commanded through its entire range. The process commanded the FCV in 5 degree increments from the full radiator bypass position to the full radiator flow position and then returned it back to the full bypass position.  Flow rates were measured to be less than expected.
At 3:50pm CST today the Flight Control Team removed power from ETCS Loop A Pump Control Valve Package (PCVP) and will leave it off for approximately 2 hours in an effort to regain FCV functionality. Engineering teams will continue to assess fault tree and impacts to the current on-board configuration.     
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons 2 (RaDI-N2) Space Bubble Detector Deploy:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio deployed 8 “bubble detectors” in a special pouch.  Radi-N2 is a follow-on investigation of RaDI-N1 and Matroshka-R experiments.  RaDI-N2 is designed to characterize the neutron radiation environment inside the ISS. The 8 neutron “bubble detectors” are attached to fixed locations inside the ISS, including one carried by a crewmember. The results of this investigation will be used to define the risk to ISS crewmembers’ health and in the development of advanced protective measures for future space flights.
Preparation for Nanoracks Hardware Arrival on Orbital-1 Vehicle:  FE-6 Wakata reviewed onboard computer-based training materials for accessing NanoRacks platforms, reconfiguring modules, and operating NanoRacks Microscope-1 and Microsocpe-2.  To prepare for the arrival of additional NanoRacks hardware on the Orbital-1 vehicle, he removed NanoRacks Platform-2 hardware and reconfigure the locker for stowage use.
Airlock Heater Jumper Installation:  Hopkins installed an Airlock Contingency Jumper to regain functionality of the Airlock Zone 3 and 4 secondary heaters.  The jumper will will bypass the solid-state thermostates in the heater circuit that is believed to be a failed-open circuit.  A patch to the INT MDM will be loaded over the weekend to support software control to the heaters.

