
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left): The crew installed the CBEF-L centrifuge and performed the necessary temperature/humidity sensor relocations to support the ground-commanded checkout activities.  CBEF-L is a new JAXA subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
ECHO maintenance: The ECHO hardware was deployed to allow the ground team to perform scheduled maintenance.  Once the maintenance was completed, the crew stowed the hardware again.  Echo is a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes that are controlled by flight controllers on the ground.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The crew performed the water collection, water transfer and bag exchange in support of the continuing JWRS checkout activities.  The Demonstration JWRS will generate potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and waste water were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Nanoracks Zero-G (ZGO) oven: The crew installed the ZGO Sample Tray in the Zero-G Oven to initiate a cooking session.  Although the crew reported a cooling rack rail that unexpectedly came off, the ground team believes the impact will be minimal.  Zero-G Oven examines heat transfer properties and the process of baking food in microgravity. It uses an oven designed specifically for use aboard the space station with a top temperature of 363.3° C. On future long-duration missions, fresh-baked food could have psychological and physiological benefits for crew members.
NutrISS (Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station): The crew set up the NutrISS Device and equipment, executed the final Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis Measurement, removed the batteries and stowed the device.  Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein, intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Rotifer-B1: The crew concluded the investigation run by removing the Rotifer-B1 Experiment Container from Kubik.  The Rotifer-B1 investigation aims to explore the effects that spaceflight has on both the metabolism and genomic/genetic level of the bdelloid rotiferAdineta vaga. This is achieved by culturing rotifers in Kubik, an on-orbit incubator facility. After exposing rotifers to space conditions inside the ISS, samples are frozen and returned to Earth for post flight analyses.
Systems:
Boeing OFT Preparations:  Today, the ISS prepared for the Boeing OFT mission arrival and performed Computer Based Training (CBT) that is designed to familiarize the crew with the Boeing Starliner vehicle. Currently, Starliner is scheduled to launch on December 20 and dock with the ISS on December 21. 
P6 Heat Exchanger Endoscope Replacement:  As part of the Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Snorkel Detailed Test Objective (DTO), the endoscope installed in the P6 heat exchanger was inundated with water.  Therefore, today the crew removed the old, failed USOS Endoscope (S/N 1001) from the LAB1P6 CCAA Heat Exchanger and installed the new USOS Endoscope (S/N 1002). Also the crew performed troubleshooting of the failed USOS Endoscope S/N 1001 to determine which hardware is failed. The new Endoscope will provide a view of the installed CDRA Snorkel so that the ground can verify that water is flowing around the snorkel as expected. With positive video results, more CDRA Snorkels will eventually be installed.

