ISS On-Orbit Status 12/17/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Saturday. Crew rest day.
 
 After wakeup, Anton Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 Also during the morning inspection, Anatoly Ivanishin conducted the periodic checkup of the circuit breakers &amp; fuses in the MRM1 Rassvet and MRM2 Poisk modules. [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 &amp; MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &amp;BPP-36. MRM2 &amp; MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.]
 
 CDR Burbank, FE-1 Shkaplerov &amp; FE-2 Ivanishin joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab. Since this was the last scheduled round of Housekeeping for Exp-29, Mike &amp; Satoshi paid special attention to some safeguarding issues to ensure a good configuration in the unlikely event of station decrewing (failure of 28S crew arriving): Flammable materials securely stowed away from UOPs (Utility Outlet Panels), Rack Power Outlets, and Power Strips, no loose items that could become free-floaters during nominal dynamic events, ventilation diffusers clear of stowage, and HEPA filters vacuum-cleaned.]
 
 As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton &amp; Anatoly completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group B2 and Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP). Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.
 
 Burbank conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
 Later, the CDR filled out his 3rd weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).[On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software. Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins. The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health. Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 Dan also completed the standard 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack. [AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient. It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.]
 
 Anatoly performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 The CDR completed the reloading of the CSL (Crew Support LAN) Server started earlier (with a replaced Ethernet cable) and configured the 5 available CSL laptops to use DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol). Afterwards, depending on time permitting, Dan also was to upgrade the CSL Clients to the new SWRDFSH2 (Swordfish-2) software to allow uplink of crew requested personal software. [DHCP is a network protocol that enables a server to automatically assign an IP (Internet Protocol) address to a computer from a defined range of numbers (i.e., a scope) configured for a given network. DHCP assigns an IP address when a system is started.]
 
 Afterwards, Dan performed his first session with the MedOps psychological evaluation experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application. [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request. The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall. These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
 At ~6:30am EST, Anton Shkaplerov had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 At ~8:05am, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~10:30am, Ivanishin &amp; Shkaplerov joined for a Russian PAO downlink, extending messages of greetings to three events: (1) to schoolchildren’s questions as part of the “Ask A Cosmonaut” initiative, conducted by International Association of Space Activity participants and GCTC (Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center), (2) to the participants of the Russian Artwork Competition “Space through the Eyes of Youth”, organized by GCTC, IBMP, and the Voronezh Nikolay Nilovich Burdenko State Medical Academy, dedicated to the 50th anniversary of Y. A. Gagarin’s flight to space (an expert jury will select the best drawings from the entire body of artwork to create a basis for traveling exhibition), and (3) to I. I. Sukhorukov, respected as a remarkable human being and gifted educator, on his 70th birthday. [Questions from schoolchildren answered were: 1. (from Switzerland) Can cosmonauts take their personal things and favorite food with them to space? What are the requirements for such things? In general, how do people eat in space? Does the food provided to you have a good taste?; 2. (from Sofia) Does weightlessness trigger any dysfunctions in human body? If yes, then what are they? Are they benign for human health? 3. (from Barcelona) Dear cosmonauts, We are very interested to know if one can get sick in space: catch cold, pickup virus, etc. Can pathogens or microbes reproduce up there? How do cosmonauts get treatment in space?]
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).
 
 Tasks listed for Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
 <ul><li>A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for Hudson Volcano, Chile, the glaciers of Patagonia and Volcano Cordon-Kaul, <li>A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, <li>Two video recordings of New Year Greetings, one for the Sevastopol TV channel for the Sevastopol residents and the other for the Rossia-24 TV Channel. Footages were then to be downlinked to TsUP-Moscow, and <li>Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.
 </li></li></li></li></ul>
 
