
Bio-Monitor: The crew swapped out the garment and stowed the old garment. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc.
GRIP: The crew performed two Grip sessions in the Supine position. This completes the 3rd and last GRIP session objectives for this mission. ESA’s Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments, support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space, and provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.
Inertial Spreading: The crew configured the hardware in the Micro-Gravity Science Glovebox work Volume and completed the droplet dispensing ops for the nine test discs. Inertial Spreading and imbibition of a liquid drop through a porous surface (Inertial Spreading) observes a drop of water spreading over and through a sponge-like metal object. When water touches a sponge-like material such as dry soil, it penetrates microscopic holes too small to see; widening these holes makes the water disappear too quickly. Microgravity slows down this process, allowing use of larger holes for more detailed observations to create a benchmark for computer simulations.
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew initiated the first set of densitometer scans on subjects inside the exam box using the Life Science Glovebox (LSG). This study uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the Myostatin (MSTN) and Activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
Systems:
Waste Hygiene Compartment Maintenance:  During the past few months, the ground teams and the crew have been troubleshooting WHC Pre-Treat Bad Quality Light (PTBQL) indicator light.  Today, the ISS crew removed the WHC Pre-Treat Tank and replaced it with a spare on-board. The crew also removed the existing WHC dose pump and replaced it with a spare.  Today’s remove and replace activity restored the WHC to nominal operations.
Mobile Support System:  Yesterday (GMT 344), the Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and commanded the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to release the Dragon Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF). Then they maneuvered it to grapple the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Payload and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) and released SPDM from the Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 2. Next, SPDM was positioned over the Dragon trunk to perform a survey of the external payloads using the SPDM Body cameras and the Dragon trunk cameras were checked out. Finally ROBO commanded the Mobile Transporter (MT) to translate from Worksite 2 to 6. MSS is now configured for the start of the SpX-19 cargo ops scheduled later today (GMT345).

