
ICE Cubes (International Commercial Experiment Cubes): A crewmember removed Experiment Cubes (Cube set #2) from the ICE Cubes facility and installed the new set of Cubes (Cube set #1) that were flown on SPX-16. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives.
Micro-14: Today a crewmember performed Operations-1 activation of Micro-14 for three Group Activation Packs (GAP) by hand cranking and shaking the GAP modules prior to re-insertion back into SABL-1(Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory). The Micro-14 (Characterizing the Effects of Spaceflight on the Candida albicans Adaptation Responses) life science research mission will investigate and evaluate the responses of the Candida albicans microorganism to microgravity conditions and, in particular, to assess changes at the physiological, cellular, and molecular level and to characterize virulence factors.
STaARS BioScience-7 (Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems): Today a crewmember inserted six Biochip kits into the MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty-degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS-2). STaARS BioScience-7 uses tissue chips to investigate the relationship between aging of the immune system and its function. The study looks at the biology of aging from two perspectives; immune function in microgravity and recovery of the cells after return to a 1g environment. Aging is associated with dysregulation of the immune response, termed immunosenescence, a condition that also may be accelerated by prolonged exposure to microgravity.
STaARS BioScience-4 (Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems): Today a crewmember removed an additional Active EC (Experiment Container) from the STaARS facility and stowed it in MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty-degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS-3). This particular active EC was showing signs of degradation and the ground team requested that it be removed and stowed. The STaARS BioScience-4 investigation examines how oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) react to microgravity, specifically the rate at which the cells proliferate and differentiate in the microgravity environment.
SpaceX (SpX-16) Cargo Operations:  The crew continued to perform cargo unloading operations today. The crew has now completed all scheduled unpacking operations.  SpX-16 will remain berthed to ISS until January 13.

