ISS On-Orbit Status 12/15/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 FE-2 Ivanishin terminated his 2nd experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground. [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data. Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
 Before sleeptime, Anton Shkaplerov will also prepare the MBI-12 equipment and start his 2nd Sonokard experiment session.
 
 In preparation for the final software upload to upgrade the Russian BVS onboard computer system with Vers. 8.05, Anatoly Ivanishin replaced the RS3 A31p laptop with a new T61p laptop (#1141) with 8.05 software (on DVD), now RS1.     [Subsequent steps included activating the new RS1 and testing it with ground specialist tagup and then supporting the 8.05 upload from it to the KTsP1 Central Post Computer 1 (KTsP2 was upgraded yesterday).  Afterwards, Anatoly ran tests of the command &amp; data link between the RS1, KTsP1, TsVM Central Computer (CC) and TVM Terminal Computer (TC).]
 
 After the final upload and successful checkout, FE-1 Shkaplerov replaced ODF (Operations Data File) documents in the Russian BVS Onboard Computer System ODF book, discarding all old pages and inserting new pages from stowage to account for the software upgrade.
 
 CDR Burbank spent several hours in the US Lab with the Robonaut equipment, first going through a procedures review, then assembling the robot payload.  The planned operation and checkouts of Robonaut joints and force sensors in the arms &amp; fingers were cancelled due to a fault message, with no time left for troubleshooting.  Robonaut was disassembled, uncabled and restowed in its M-03 Bag.  Further activities with Robonaut will not be scheduled until January.       [PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, which had been moved out of the way, was restored to nominal position.]
 
 FE-1 had another ~3h10m for more unloading and transfers of cargo from Progress 45P to the ISS for stowage, guided by an uplinked loading plan and logged in the IMS (Inventory Management System). [Of the approximately 1166 listed entries on 45P, about 404 are USOS items. Progress M-13M is to remain docked at the DC1 for about 3 months, and its unloading continues as a long-term activity.] 
 
 Afterwards, with STTS audio comm systems temporarily configured for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Anton conducted another active session for the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), followed by downlinking the video footage obtained with a SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder over two RGS (Russian Groundsite) passes (9:45am &amp; 11:20am) and reconfiguring STTS to nominal. [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles. Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles. It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]Anton 
 
 With the FSS Photospectrograph battery freshly charged overnight, Ivanishin used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 during a one-hour segment, taking pictures of targets along the flight track and focusing on Africa, waters and coastal zone of the Atlantic Ocean, characteristic natural areas (lakes, rivers, sand, etc.), and the coastline, coastal zone and waters of the Indian Ocean. [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module. FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
 FE-2 also completed the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWC (Contingency Water Container, #1000) to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container. Once filled, the EDV was to be connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit. [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]
 
 CDR Burbank concluded his 2nd (FD30) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~1:05pm EST). The laptop was then powered off. The downloading of the two Actiwatch Spectrums and copying of data from the 2 HM2 HiFi CF Cards to the HRF PC was deferred to later. [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis. The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute). After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required. After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]
 
 Burbank also replaced the battery of the T61p laptop in the A/L (Airlock) with a new battery (#1127), discarding the old one (#1049).
 
 Shkaplerov collecting the periodic air samples in the RS, using a Russian AK-1M absorber in the SM &amp; FGB for air &amp; Freon as well as IPD-CO Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide).
 
 Anton also took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, his first, spending ~90 min on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.  Later, the MO-3 assessment was also undertaken by Anatoly. [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel. Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings. For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].
 
 Ivanishin conducted the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
 Later, over RGS (Russian Ground Site) at 12:54pm-1:17pm EST, FE-2 repeated yesterday’s test of the VHF-2 channel from the SM using backup VHF sets of the STTS onboard comm system.
 
 CDR Burbank conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies. Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes. [The current card (29-0008B) lists 32 CWCs (490.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (6 CWCs with 199.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria; 2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 19.1 L), 7 empty bags; 3. Iodinated water (11 CWCs with 186.4 L; also 3 expired bags with 59.1 L); 4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and 5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush). Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents. Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources. These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Before his workout on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), the CDR evacuated its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition &amp; sensor calibration.       [The cylinders always have a very minute leak.  If air is not removed from them, ARED loads will not be true to scale.  After a complete cylinder evacuation, ARED loads can feel significantly higher.]
 
 Anatoly Ivanishin completed his 3rd data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file. [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log. Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
 FE-2 also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 At ~1:20pm, Burbank conducted his regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
 At ~2:35pm EST, Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin were scheduled to support two Russian PAO TV events, downlinking messages of greetings to (1) the employees of the Russian Pension Fund in the Republic of Tatarstan, and (2) the team of the 2nd Central Military Clinical Hospital.     [(1) On 12/22, the Russian Pension Fund will be 21 years old.  The Branch of Pension Fund in the Republic of Tatarstan is one of the leading regional branches in the system of Russian Federation Pension Fund.  (2) New Year greetings went to the personnel of the  P. V. Mandryk Central Military Clinical Hospital No. 2.]
 
 Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).
 
 The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1 &amp; FE-2 for today suggested –
 <ul><li>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), <li>The daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur), and <li>More unloading of Progress 45P with concurrent updates of the IMS.
 </li></li></li></ul>
 GHF Checkout:   JAXA reported yesterday that the extensive checkout of the GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) payload on the Kobairo Rack in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), which began on 12/1, was successfully concluded.  Checkouts for an experiment will start on 12/17 (Saturday).
 
 Conjunction Update: Latest tracking data show that the conjunction with Object 31894 (another Fengyun 1C satellite debris) with TCA (Time of Closest Approach) tomorrow at ~7:17pm will have a large miss distance (~105 km) and an unofficial Pc (Probability of Collision) of Zero.  NASA Flight Controllers continue to monitor the object. 
 
 Space-X Dragon Update:    CUCU (COTS UHF Communication Unit) test sessions for the Dryden Radio Frequency (RF) checkout with the upgraded CUCU on ISS were conducted last night and the night before.  A backup capability, with better line-of-sight visibility, exists today.  This is in support of the Space-X Demo Launch planned currently for 2/7 next year.  The Space-X Dragon capsule will deliver pressurized and unpressurized cargo to ISS after launch from Cape Canaveral and then reenter for splashdown off the coast of California.  If launched on 2/7, Fly-under will follow on 2/9, Berthing via SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) on 2/10 and Unberth at 2/23 (work is underway to deconflict Dragon activities from the Russian EVA scheduled for 2/14).  Eight demonstration objectives are defined for this mission and documented in Flight Rules.  For Rendezvous &amp; Berthing there will be a hold point at both 30 m and 10 m, with Go/No-go decision.  The ISS crew starts monitoring at 1000m and takes action starting at 200m.  Dragon has multiple abort capabilities, each made up of 2 types of burns - large delta-V aligned with X-axis and small delta-V in any body direction.
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) target uplinked for today was Chiloe Island, southern Chile (HMS Beagle Site: ISS had a morning pass with the potential for clouds over this region.  At this time, the crew was to look just left of track for this large, rugged and forested island as it approached the southern coast of Chile from the NW.  Trying for context views of the island as a whole.  Darwin arrived at this island on June 12, 1834), Tokyo, Japan (this capital is also a megacity that now has an estimated population exceeding 13 million.  It is located on the south coast of the main Japanese island of Honshu.  As the crew tracked SE toward Japan, they were to look nadir for this large city at night, capturing the entire city in their shots), Bay of Callao, Lima, Peru (HMS Beagle Site: Darwin and the Beagle arrived at this port city, just west of Lima, on July 19, 1835 to take on provisions.  This city is built on and about a small peninsula, La Punta, and just opposite the offshore island of San Lorenzo.  As ISS tracked NE, the crew was to look nadir for this site, trying to acquire contextual views of the bay and the surrounding region), and Delhi, India (Delhi is the largest metropolis by area and the second largest by population in India, next to Mumbai.  As the crew tracked SE over the India-Pakistan border, they were to look nadir to acquire night shots of this large city, trying to capture the entire city in their shots and acquire some mapping shots as well).
 
 
