
43 Soyuz (43S) Undock and Landing:  The 43S crew (Kononenko, Yui, and Lindgren) undocked from the Mini-Research Module (MRM)-1 docking port today at 3:49am CST. The Soyuz deorbit burn was completed at 6:24am CST, resulting in a nominal landing in the Kazakhstan southern zone at 7:18am CST. The ISS will be in 3-crew operations until 45S docking on December 15.
 
Cognition:  Kelly performed his Flight Day 263 session of the Cognition experiment.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Microbiome, Telomeres and Salivary Markers:  Blood samples were taken from Yui, Lindgren and Kelly to support the Microbiome, Telomeres and Salivary Markers investigations.  These samples were then stored at ambient temperatures on the 43S vehicle that returned today.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).  Telomeres investigates how telomeres and telomerase are affected by space travel.  Salivary Markers data will be used to identify any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system.
 
Reaction Self-Test:  Kelly and Kornienko completed sessions for the Reaction Self-Test investigation. The experiment helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
 
Journals:  Kelly completed a Journals entry. The investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used by astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparations for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations: Kelly completed 3 hours of OA-4 cargo operations including transfer of Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) 3008.
 

