
Russian Segment ExtraVehicular Activity (RS EVA) 45A: Today, Kononenko and Prokopev exited Docking Compartment (DC)-1 at ~10:11 AM CT in order to execute RS EVA #45A. The following tasks were completed in 7 hours 46 minutes.

Inspection of Soyuz MS-09 БО (Orbital Module) exterior with MLI shield removal.

BCM (Behavioral Core Measures): Today crewmembers performed Behavioral Core measure sessions. Standardized Behavioral Core Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions examines an integrated, standardized suite of measurements for its ability to rapidly and reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight.
NanoRacks Module-9: A crewmember performed NanoRacks Module-9 operations Session-02 which involves opening the clamp on a sample tube and shaking to mix contents. ARCUS Protein – Making the Cut – in Space consists of students that use Precision BioSciences’ genome editing technology to test a synthetic enzyme in microgravity. Or Drinking Coffee in Space: The Impact of Microgravity on Streptococcus mutans on Susceptibility to Coffee (SmCoffee) is a student investigation that studies the effect of cavity-causing bacteria on teeth in a space environment.
APEX-05 (Advanced Plant Experiment): Today the APEX-05 Petri Plates were inserted into the Veggie-02 Facility. The APEX-05 experiment grows different wild and mutant varieties of Arabidopsis thaliana, in order to understand how their genetic and molecular stress response systems work in space.
MVP Cell-05 (Multi-use Variable-g Processing Facility) Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification: Today a crewmember removed the 4 modules from the MVP centrifuge and stowed for return. This is the third and last sample run completing MVP Cell-05 science operations. Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification – Multi-use Variable-g Processing Facility (MVP Cell-05) investigates the complex process of cement solidification. There have been a number of studies of the potential for making and using concrete on extraterrestrial bodies, but as of yet, no actual tests in a microgravity environment. Detailed microstructural evaluation of the samples represents the first step toward such implementation.

