
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS, and took photos. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Compliant Low-Profile Independent Non-Protruding Genderless System (CLINGERS): The crew assisted with the performance of the second of three planned checkouts for the CLINGERS system. CLINGERS uses the ISS Astrobee robots to demonstrate an adaptor for docking and close approach sensing to connect both active and passive objects in space. These are critical functions to enable applications such as satellite servicing, orbital refueling, spacecraft repair and upgrade, and in-orbit manufacturing. Results could increase the ability to safely move objects and grow the on-orbit assembly ecosystem.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew took multiple images of the experiment preform. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN. Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth. Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
International Commercial Experiment Cubes (ICE Cubes): Cube #6 (Kirara 5) was removed in the ICE Cubes facility. Kirara is a 1-Unit (1U)-sized incubator, equipped with a temperature controller, which is used to allow protein crystallization to happen in microgravity under a well-maintained temperature. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. During flight, users can monitor near real-time telemetry, and have tele-commanding capabilities from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, any institute, or any entity.
Powered Ascent Utility Locker (PAUL): PAUL-1 and PAUL-2 were moved from the ISS to the Dragon to prepare for return to the ground. The PAULs contain several TangoLab experiment modules. The PAUL is reconfigurable hardware that provides power to payloads during ascent to the space station. That makes it possible to control temperature and other conditions for investigations during their trip to the space station, expanding the possibilities for research aboard the orbiting laboratory.
Plant Habitat Facility: In preparation for the upcoming Plant Habitat-06 science session, the crew filled the water reservoirs and took a routine water sample to check for coliform contamination. Plants on Earth and in space must defend themselves from diseases. Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analyses indicate the adaptive response of plants rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Systems:
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring completed science and supplies to the SpX-29 cargo vehicle in preparation for its return to Earth. Due to a cold front causing high winds, SpX-29 will now target a NET December 15th undock date pending further weather reports.
NG-19 Cygnus Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring trash and items marked for disposal into the NG-19 vehicle in preparation for its departure from station. To support a combustion experiment that will occur following Cygnus unberth and prior to reentry, NG-19 will be filled to provide an exact amount of open volume for the payload. NG-19 will be berthed to the ISS until December 21st.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The fill was then terminated, and the Post-Flight Analysis Bag was analyzed after the pressure relief burp. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
