
Human Research Collections: The crew performed collections for several Human Research experiments today. Samples were collected and stowed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Samples were collected for Biochemical Profile, Repository, and Multiomics. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. The objective of MultiOmics is to understand the gut ecosystem of astronauts in the space environment, especially focusing on the immune dysfunction, and to evaluate the impact of fructooligosaccharide (FOS).
BioLab Maintenance: The crew performed regular maintenance on ESA’s BioLab facility.  The Thermal Control Units (TCUs) 1 & 2 were cleaned, then the Silica Gel Bags were exchanged fro new ones.  The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Group Combustion: This morning the Group Combustion air line was leak checked following last week’s tightening activities.  Ground teams are reviewing the data. The Group Combustion investigation tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack in the Kibo module, droplets of decane, a component of gasoline or kerosene, are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  In preparation for ELF operations, the gas supply was changed from Argon to Gaseous Nitrogen (GN2). The Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
Personal CO2 Monitor: The crew donned the Personal CO2 monitor, and will wear it wearing for a full week, with the monitor clipped on the crew’s clothes.  The Personal CO2 Monitor demonstrates a new capability to continuously monitor the astronauts’ immediate surroundings on the ISS.  All human spacecraft must be designed with environmental control systems that remove CO2 from the air that their crews breathe, but the space environment can still lead to “pockets” of CO2 that are difficult to detect and remove. The Personal CO2 Monitor demonstrates a system capable of unobtrusively collecting and downlinking individual crew members’ CO2 exposure for weeks to months.  The Personal CO2 Monitor also demonstrates Modular Wearable Architecture Base Board, allowing rapid certification of future wearable devices.
Biomolecule Sequencer (BMS): Over the weekend, the crew successfully performed a BMS run off of the task list.  Flow Cell #6 was retrieved from Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS-1 (MELFI1) in the JEM and then was activated to perform a pore count then shut down. The Flow Cells’ life was originally listed as 60 days from manufacture, however the positive results achieved during this test shows viable use at 5 months post-manufacture.  An additional test in January will determine if there is still possible use at that time frame, or limit the use at 5-months.    The goals of the BMS experiment are to provide a proof-of-concept for the functionality and evaluate crew operability of a DNA sequencer in a space/microgravity environment.  The capability for sequencing of DNA in space could provide for a better ability to identify microbes in real-time, instead of requiring sample return and ground based analysis.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)6 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for HTV6 capture and berthing, the crew completed another session of training. In addition to self-study the crew practiced 3 Capture Point (CP)-hold runs allowing them to practice Free Drift timing, malfunction response and nominal rate approaches.  They also performed 2m approach runs. After the session, the Hardware Command Panel (HCP) was assembled and cables routed from Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) to the Cupola.  Finally, there was a review of HTV cargo transfer operations procedures via a conference with ground specialists.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Maintenance:  The crew performed loop scrubs on Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) 3006 and 3010.  Following the loop scrub, the crew took a water sample which will be returned to the ground for assessment.  Later, the crew will iodinate the loop and perform the final portion of the post-launch checkout for EMU 3006.

