ISS On-Orbit Status 12/15/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – Crew rest day.
 
After wakeup, FE-1 Novitskiy performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection and also completed the daily reboot of the Russian RS1 &amp; RS2 laptops.
 
Next, FE-1 completed the periodic checkup of the circuit breakers &amp; fuses in the MRM1 Rassvet module, while FE-2 did the same in the MRM2 Poisk module.    [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 &amp; MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &amp; BPP-36.  MRM2 &amp; MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.]
 
FE-2 Tarelkin rebooted the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops.
 
Evgeny also performed maintenance on the BRI smart switch router (SSR), checking its temperature via DeviceControl on the RSS1 laptop to ensure nominal operation.     [The BRI fan module consists of 4 individual fans. If one or several of these exhibit malfunction or rotation speed decreases, a combined warning is sent to the DeviceControl application on the RSS1 laptop to generate an emergency message and telemetry signal, “BRI1”. The fan module is an ORU (On-orbit Replaceable Unit).]
 
Working as a team, Ford, Novitskiy &amp; Tarelkin conducted the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including all USOS (US Orbit Segment) modules like Lab, Nodes, COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Oleg &amp; Evgeny conducted regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP), the SKV air conditioner in the SM and the periodic cleaning of Russian Potok-150МК (150 micron) pre-filters of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air purification subsystem.
 
CDR Ford re-installed the three PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Lab starboard bay S3, engaged the snubber pins and locked safety pins to protect its ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) from external loading (dynamic disturbances).
 
Ford also restowed the hardware/tools which he used during his IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the CIR on 12/13.
 
Oleg activated the Russian payload TEKh-39 LCS (Laser Communications System, Russian: SLS) in the SM. About 5 hrs later, FE-1 copied the collected test data from the RSE-SLS A31p laptop to the RSS2 laptop for data downlink and log file dump.
 
Evgeny concluded his first session with the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2-1 protocol, started yesterday.     [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Tarelkin doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
Kevin performed the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
Novitskiy completed the daily routine task of servicing the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
The CDR filled out his standard FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MDLT (Medical Laptop Terminal), the 6<sup>th</sup> time for Kevin.    [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MDLT software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] 
 
At ~7:00am EST, Tarelkin had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
At ~7:55am EST, the three crewmembers held the standard WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~9:30am, Oleg &amp; Evgeny supported a Russian PAO TV event, responding to questions from Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine, an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.     [“Hello, Oleg and Evgeny, most likely, you are well adjusted to the station by now. - Where are your sleeping stations now? Do you have your favorite nooks or hobbies? How different are modules from mockup-trainers? - There are only three of you in this huge facility. Perhaps you are missing some company, live interaction. How do you spend your leisure time? - Less than a week remains before the launch of your crewmates. This time you are going to be the hosts. How are you going to welcome them? Where are you going to accommodate them? - The New Year is almost here.  You are going to celebrate it on orbit as a big international team, and more than once. Isn’t it fantastic? Did you get your greenery yet? What New Year wishes would you have for the people? - This week you conducted Plazmennyi Kristall experiment. Specialists are expecting something from it, and what was your role in it? Please tell us at least about some of the experiments which you have already performed or still performing. - Oleg, how was your conference with your home town residents? Who else would you like to talk to? - What are your plans for January?”]
 
The three crewmembers worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2).
 
Tasks listed for Evgeny &amp; Oleg on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l3 level1 lfo7">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l3 level1 lfo7">A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining SKPF-U (Photo Image Coordinate Reference System) HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of South-Eastern Atlantic (SEA), South-East Pacific (SEP), South-Western Atlantic (SWA) and Central-Eastern Atlantic (CEA), then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l3 level1 lfo7">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U  to record target sites on the Earth surface, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l3 level1 lfo7">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
Reboost Preview:  Tomorrow morning at ~8:34am EST, the ISS will perform the reboost maneuver deferred from 12/13, to test the new cyclogram-controlled PDAM (Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver) procedure and to set up orbital phasing angle for the upcoming launches of Soyuz 33S and Progress 50P.   [The 7m 50s maneuver, performed by Progress 48P mid-ring thrusters, is expected to provide a delta-V of 0.5 m/sec and a mean altitude increase delta-h of 0.88 km, yielding a mean altitude of 411 km, with 427.5 km apogee height and 394.4 km perigee height. For the maneuver, ISS attitude control authority will be handed over to Russian MCS at 7:14am, followed by the maneuver to reboost attitude at 8:13am. After the reboost, attitude control authority will be returned to US CMG control moment management at 9:14am. PDAM is good for "late notification" objects up until TIG – 5h20m, thus reducing the likelihood of sheltering in the Soyuz.]
 

