
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-6 Capture/Berthing: This morning, the crew captured HTV-6 at 4:37 am CST using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). Following capture, Robotics Ground Controllers used the SSRMS to maneuver the HTV-6 into position to support the inspection of the HTV-6 Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) and maneuver the HTV-6 to the N2 Nadir install position.  Ground Controllers the completed the N2 nadir CBM capture and bolting to complete the HTV installation.  Following installation, the crew pressurized the vestibule, performed vestibule outfitting, and ingressed the vehicle. The Robotic Ground Controllers have released the HTV6 and maneuvered the SSRMS to grapple the HTV6 External Platform (EP). Here, HTV Berthing Camera System (HBCS) was checked out on both strings and SSRMS is now providing power to the EP for heaters on 1 string (camera and batteries).
Lighting Effects: The crew performed a visual assessment tests in the Crew Quarters (CQs), using the newly installed Solid State Lighting Assemblies (SSLAs) and hope to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft.  The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Testing Solid State Lighting Countermeasures to Improve Circadian Adaptation, Sleep, and Performance During High Fidelity Analog and Flight Studies for the International Space Station (Lighting Effects) investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Laptop Computer (MLC) Shell Swap: During Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) operations, ground teams observed power and connectivity issues with the MLC.  The crew performed a shell swap, removing the internal components and installing them in a backup laptop shell.  Following the swap, ground teams observed connectivity issues, and the crew was instructed to verify connection to the power brick a power cycle which recovered the MLC.  No loss of science was reported during the MLC recovery and PBRE proceeded to downlink files after the recovery. PBRE studies the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used widely in chemical engineering as a means to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil, etc.). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers, strippers, etc. in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space. 

