ISS On-Orbit Status 12/18/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After wakeup, FE-2 Tarelkin rebooted the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops and completed daily routine maintenance on the BRI smart switch router (SSR), checking its temperature via DeviceControl on the RSS1 laptop to ensure nominal operation.     [The BRI fan module consists of 4 individual fans. If one or several of these exhibit malfunction or rotation speed decreases, a combined warning is sent to the DeviceControl application on the RSS1 laptop to generate an emergency message and telemetry signal, “BRI1”. The fan module is an ORU (On-orbit Replaceable Unit).]
 
FE-2 Tarelkin undertook his 2<sup>nd</sup> MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) tests, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, preceded by PZEh-MO-8 BMM (body mass measurement) using the IM device. Oleg Novitskiy recorded photo/video documentation.     [Supported by the RSS-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with Evgenyi’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.]
 
Evgeny also performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection and also completed the daily reboot of the Russian RS1 &amp; RS2 laptops.
 
Working in the Node-3/Cupola, CDR Ford extended JSL (Joint Station LAN) Cupola cable extensions to the Cupola by installing a cable to an existing bulkhead feedthrough.    [The Node 3 STBD ELPS is also removed as part of this activity.     [The ELPS (Emergency Lighting Power Supplies) in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment) was also removed.]
 
Ford also completed another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
Oleg Novitskiy conducted his 3<sup>rd</sup> onboard session of the Russian MedOps assessment MO-12, (“Study of the Veins in the Lower Extremities”), using the KARDIOMED (Cardiomed) complex with orthogonal leads.     [After loading the RSE-med laptop with the Cardiomed software, Yuri set up the equipment, which involves KARDIOMED-TsB, KARDIOMED-KP, KARDIOMED-PMO and KARDIOMED-KRM assemblies with ECG (electrocardiogram) electrodes in a HOLTER monitor harness, a PLETISMOGRAF (Plethysmograph) instrument with calf measuring cuff, pneumatic hose, thigh occlusion cuff, hand pump &amp; valve, and a DOPPLER complex.  A Plethysmograph (sometimes called a “body box”) is an instrument for measuring changes in volume within an organ or the whole body (usually resulting from fluctuations in the amount of blood or air it contains).]
 
Oleg Novitskiy &amp; Evgeny Tarelkin took their first onboard session of the Russian MedOps assessment MO-12, (“Study of the Veins in the Lower Extremities”), using the KARDIOMED (Cardiomed) complex with orthogonal leads.     [After loading the RSE-med laptop with the Cardiomed software, Oleg set up the equipment, which involves KARDIOMED-TsB, KARDIOMED-KP, KARDIOMED-PMO and KARDIOMED-KRM assemblies with ECG (electrocardiogram) electrodes in a HOLTER monitor harness, a PLETISMOGRAF (Plethysmograph) instrument with calf measuring cuff, pneumatic hose, thigh occlusion cuff, hand pump &amp; valve, and a DOPPLER complex.  A Plethysmograph (sometimes called a “body box”) is an instrument for measuring changes in volume within an organ or the whole body (usually resulting from fluctuations in the amount of blood or air it contains).]
 
Evgeny collected &amp; downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 11 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard &amp; port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, MRM1, etc.) and four in CQs.     [The sensors were cross-calibrated, and the memory/flash card was then replaced.  Today’s readings were taken manually from all 11 deployed dosimeters and logged on a data sheet. The dosimeters were re-deployed at their locations. They take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.]
 
Afterwards, Oleg performed the routine verification of yesterday’s automated refreshes of the IUS AntiVirus program on all Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2.     [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update some time ago.  Before the installation on 8/8/11 of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
Afterwards, with Evgeny’s assistance in the SM, FE-1 conducted the regular monthly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization).       [This requires inspecting the condition of harnesses, belt slats, corner bracket ropes, SLD (Subject Load Device) cables &amp; exit pulley housing, IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies) and gyroscope wire ropes for any damage or defects, lubricating as required plus recording control panel time &amp; date values, and making sure that the display cable and skirt were properly secured afterwards.]
 
With RS (Russian Segment) STTS communications configured for work in MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2), Oleg Novitskiy conducted another session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), activating the hardware with electromagnet and video camcorder and completing the experiment run, which he video-recorded with the SONY HVR-Z1J for subsequent downlink via RSPI.       [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in a magnetic field (trap), investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS (Russian Segment): condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
In Node-3, Kevin performed routine maintenance on the WRS (Water Recovery System), changing out the TOCA WWB (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer Waste Water Bag) with a new one.
 
Next, Ford also conducted the approximately weekly WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.      [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
Oleg activated the Russian payload TEKh-39 LCS (Laser Communications System, Russian: SLS) in the SM. About 3hr5m later, FE-1 copied the collected test data from the RSE-SLS A31p laptop to the RSS2 laptop for data downlink and log file dump.
 
Evgeny Tarelkin completed the routine daily &amp; weekly servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM and FGB.     [This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings of SM &amp; FGB for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for calldown.  SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers as required.]
 
Novitsky performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Kevin had ~3.5 hrs reserved for IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the Lab Deck CQ (Crew Quarters)
where he cleaned the Kabin and all systems preparatory to the arrival of the 32S crew.    [Safing was required before this activity.]
 
Afterwards, the CDR powered up and logged in the CSL (Crew Support Laptop) in the Deck CQ to allow MCC-Houston ground personnel to update the CSL-1 software from the ground. 
 
Plaque Hanging:   At 3:45pm EDT, the traditional official plaque hanging will take place in ISS Mission Control/Houston for the Inc-32 Plaque with crew participation.
 
Evgeny collected &amp; downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 11 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard &amp; port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, MRM1, etc.) and four in CQs.     [The sensors were cross-calibrated, and the memory/flash card was then replaced.  Today’s readings were taken manually from all 11 deployed dosimeters and logged on a data sheet. The dosimeters were re-deployed at their locations. They take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.]
 
<a name="_GoBack"></a>Before Presleep (~2:30pm EST), Ford powers up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Kevin turns MPC routing off again.    [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The three crewmembers worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1).
 
Tasks listed for Evgeny &amp; Oleg on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U  to record target sites on the Earth surface, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 


