ISS On-Orbit Status 12/11/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
After wakeup, FE-1 Novitskiy performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
FE-2 Tarelkin completed the daily reboots of the Russian laptops RS1 &amp; RS2 and RSS1 &amp; RSS2.
 
Evgeny also performed maintenance on the BRI smart switch router (SSR), checking its temperature to ensure nominal operation.     [The BRI fan module consists of 4 individual fans. If one or several of these exhibit malfunction or rotation speed decreases, a combined warning is sent to the DeviceControl application on the RSS1 laptop to generate an emergency message and telemetry signal, “BRI1”. The fan module is an ORU (On-orbit Replaceable Unit).]
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), CDR Ford continued supporting JAXA in troubleshooting of the IPU VRU3 (Image Processing Unit Video Recording Unit #3), replacing the VRU disk in slot #2 (1102) with a new one (1175), then removing the VRU disk in slot #3 (1107) for return to the ground and inserting disk 1102 instead.
 
Wearing “mess-up” mitts, safety goggle &amp; dust mask, Ford worked in Node-3 on the WRS-2 (Water Recovery System) Rack 2, drained the RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) #2, filled with brine on 12/6, with the Russian Kompressor-M into an EDV-U container and then stowed it. 
 
The CDR also performed an USOS-wide inventory/audit of mesh bags for use in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS), coming up with 102 in JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and 15 in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), 3 packs of 5 ea.
 
Tarelkin conducted the periodic inspection of SM windows, focused on #1 and #12, for which he had made preparations yesterday.
 
After running into communications issues with Robonaut yesterday (which are being investigated by the ground), Kevin uncabled, disassembled and returned Robonaut and supporting hardware to their stowage locations. The Lab camcorder cabling was restored for analog downlink.
 
Later, Kevin conducted the approximately weekly WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.      [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
Ford also relocated two CWC-Is (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine, 2062 &amp; 2066) from the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) to Node-2.
 
Oleg Novitskiy &amp; Evgeny Tarelkin undertook their first training session of the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular evaluation in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP) on the Russian VELO ergometer, assisting each other in turn as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [The 50-min assessment, supported by ground specialist tagup (VHF) and telemetry monitoring from Russian ground site (DO12, 3:09am-3:22am; DO12/13, 4:43am-4:59am), uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels. The Chibis ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmember’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after several months in zero-G.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, today set at -20, -25, -30 and -35mmHg for five min. each while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure. The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
FE-2 later performed his 3<sup>rd</sup> collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.    [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
FE-1 configured the REGUL-Packet radiogram channel from REGUL-OS/String 1 to work with String 2, a periodic alternating task.     [Located in the SM, the Regul-OS is a subsystem of the RSUS Radio Control &amp; Comm System of the RS (Russian Segment) for handling two-way voice communication, digital command/program information, and telemetry transmission via Russian RGS (Groundsites).   Regul is the nominal uplink channel for all Russian commands; operating at a low data rate, it is equivalent to the US S-band system.]
 
Novitskiy &amp; Tarelkin again had time set aside for unloading Progress 49P and transferring its cargo to the ISS for stowage, keeping track of moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Kevin worked on the FSL (Fluid Sciences Laboratory) Rack, uninstalling the SAMS SE (Space Acceleration Measurement System Sensor Enclosure) and its associated cable which he had mounted onto the FSL ODM (Optical Diagnostics Module) seat track on 12/4.
 
Oleg had 1h20m set aside for starting the periodic inventory/audit of tools &amp; equipment in the RS (Russian Segment).
 
Afterwards, with STTS communications configured for work in MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2), FE-1 Novitskiy conducted another session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), activating the hardware with electromagnet and video camcorder and completing the experiment run, which FE-2 Tarelkin video-recorded with the SONY HVR-Z1J for subsequent downlink via RSPI.    [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in a magnetic field (trap), investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS (Russian Segment): condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
Kevin Ford took water samples from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser)’s Ambient port for microbial in-flight processing and TOCA analysis.   [Collected were one 125 mL microbial in-flight sample and one TOCA 250 mL in-flight sample.]
 
Later, the CDR processed the inflight PWD water samples with the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit / Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for inflight coliform indications (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).     [The activity must be conducted within 6 hrs after water collection from the PWD line. The visual T+2 Day microbial (bacterial &amp; fungal) analysis of the potable water samples will be performed on 12/13.] 
 
Tarelkin had time set aside for another 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific (SEP), then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
The CDR supported troubleshooting of the ISSAC (ISS Agricultural Camera) system by the ground by retrieving the camera’s log file and transferring it to an SSC (Station Support Computer) for downlink.
 
Evgeny took on the daily routine job of servicing the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, FE-1 completed the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
After verifying functionality of the UBNT SDTO (Ultrasonic Background Noise Test / Station Development Test Objective) transceiver installed on the SSC (Station Support Computer), Kevin downloaded the summary data file from the UBNT data recorders in the Lab, then loaded a test session program that had been uplinked, and closed out the flight control software.     [The sensor kit of the UBNT SDTO was installed by Ford on 11/14 around the Lab fwd hatch, mostly using adhesive. The system uses four transducers, a data recorder, an antenna set and a transceiver connected to the SSC with a USB cable. Ultrasound can detect tiny vacuum leaks.] 
 
Later, the CDR reviewed the new test plan and procedures for tomorrow’s scheduled session with the SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites) payload and at ~11:25am conducted a teleconference with the Payload Developer on the ground to discuss science operations and questions..
 
Kevin again had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep (~2:30pm EST), Ford powers up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Kevin turns MPC routing off again.    [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
FE-1 &amp; FE-2 held their standard weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Evgeny at ~10:35am, Oleg at ~11:55am EST.
 
The three crewmembers worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2).
 
Tasks listed for Evgeny &amp; Oleg on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U  to record target sites on the Earth surface, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Tropical Cyclone Claudia (Dynamic Event: Tropical Cyclone Claudia was a Category 3 storm on GMT Day 345, and is forecasted to downgrade to a Category 1 or 2 by the time of the flyover. As ISS tracked NE over the Indian Ocean, the crew was to look left of track to acquire short lens imagery of the cyclone, if applicable shooting long lens shots of the cyclone eye), N. Isle of France, Mauritius (HMS Beagle Site:  On April 29, 1836, Charles Darwin landed on the northern portion of what is now known as the island of Mauritius and remained there for a few days. The island is also famous as the home of the dodo, a large flightless bird driven to extinction - directly or indirectly - by humans during the 17th century.  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass with partly cloudy weather expected. At this time as ISS tracked over the Indian Ocean east of the large island of Madagascar, the crew was to look left of track to capture shots of the northern portion of the island, if possible acquiring long lens shots of the city), Port Louis, Mauritius (Capital Cities Collection Site:  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass for this target with its approach from the SW. This small capital city of ~150,000 people is located on the NW coast of the island of Mauritius.   At this time, after passing the large, French island of Reunion, just ahead lied a similar island, Mauritius. Looking just left of the track and try to capture this urban area within a single frame),. If possible, acquire long lens shots of the city), and Moroni, Comoros (Capital Cities Collection Site: ISS had a fair weather pass for this target as it approached from the SW over the Mozambique Channel, with the possibility of some clouds over the area.  This capital city is located on the western coastline of the island of Grande Comoros. Moroni has served as the capital since 1958. Looking right of track for the Comoros archipelago and Moroni. Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested).
 

