
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS, and took photos. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months before returning to Earth for analysis.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the MSG work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN. Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
NanoRacks (NR) Module-9: The crew opened the blue clamps and shook the four remaining mixture tubes, deactivating and preserving the experiments inside the tubes. Experiments in the tubes manipulated today were botanical samples. NR Mod-9 is a module containing a complement of Mixture Tubes. These Mixture Tubes each contain a separate experiment that can be activated and deactivated while in zero-G. Tubes are a low-cost, high-return science opportunity for students to send experiments to ISS and encompass a wide range of science/disciplines. Mixture Tubes are very popular with middle and high school science programs and have also been used by private company research, technical schools, and individual research.
Plant Habitat Facility: The results of the water coliform test were confirmed to be negative following the required two day waiting period. This is part of the preparation for the Plant Habitat-06 science activities scheduled to begin in the next few weeks. Plants on Earth and in space must defend themselves from diseases. Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analyses indicate the adaptive response of plants rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew performed a VR Mental Care experiment session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
Node 3 Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Water Separator (WS) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew replaced the CCAA WS in Node 3. The CCAA circulates, cools, and dehumidifies air in the Lab, Node 2, Node 3, and the Airlock. The WS provides the necessary suction flow at the outlet of the condensing heat exchanger to remove condensate.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Brine Filter Changeout: The UPA Brine Filter was removed and replaced in preparation for a Recycle Tank (RT) drain via the UPA Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). This allows for brine to be processed through the Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) increasing total water recovery from 87% to 97%.
NG-19 Cygnus Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring trash and items marked for disposal into the NG-19 vehicle in preparation for its departure from station. To support a combustion experiment that will occur following Cygnus unberth and prior to reentry, NG-19 will be filled to provide an exact amount of open volume for the payload. NG-19 will be berthed to the ISS until later this month.
Axiom iPhone On-Orbit Test and Checkout: Today, in support of the upcoming Axiom Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) to the ISS, the crew continued the network test and checkout on the smartphones and tablets that the Axiom crew will use while they are on the ISS. The smartphones and tablets will enable the crew to perform all of their scheduled activities efficiently while they are on board.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Deck Maintenance: The crew cleaned out the exhaust port of the Deck CQ fan to troubleshoot the cause of error messages that have been occurring. The fans allow the crew to select a comfortable airflow through their CQ.
