
Payloads
Cardinal Heart:  Following the delay of the microscopy activities from Monday, today the crew performed both the microscopic observation of the cells as well as the cell culture media exchange.  Effect of Microgravity on Drug Responses Using Engineered Heart Tissues (Cardinal Heart) studies the effects of change in gravitational force on cardiovascular cells at the cellular and tissue level using engineered heart tissues (EHTs). Microgravity significantly affects heart tissues that perform work and exert an opposite force to gravity and is known to cause molecular and structural abnormalities in cells and tissues that can lead to disease. The investigation could provide new understanding of similar heart issues on Earth and help identify new treatments.
CIR/ACME (Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments)/BRE-2: The crew performed a manifold bottle exchange to allow the continuation of the BRE-part 2 series of experiment burns.  The fuel currently installed in the rack is ethylene (CH2=CH2).  This was performed in support of the continuing BRE part 2 (Burning Rate Emulator) investigation, which is one of the ACME suite of five gas combustion experiments.  The BRE experiment runs are focused on spacecraft fire prevention. More specifically, BRE’s objective is to improve our fundamental understanding of materials flammability and to assess the relevance of existing flammability test methods for low and partial-gravity environments.
Fiber Optic Production: The crew exchanged a processed sample cartridge with a new one.  They noted some difficulty wrapping the processed fiber around the spool, but were able to complete the activity.  The Fiber Optic Production investigation creates optical fibers with high commercial value aboard the ISS using a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum called ZBLAN. It operates in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Extensive theoretical studies along with a limited number of experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity should exhibit far superior qualities to those produced on Earth. The resulting optical fiber from Fiber Optic Production is expected to help verify these studies and guide further engineering efforts to manufacture high value optical fiber in large volume aboard the ISS.
ISS HAM pass:  The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Oregon Charter Academy, Mill City, OR.  Oregon Charter Academy is a public virtual charter school that hosts over 4800 students in grades Kindergarten through 12th grade from all across the state of Oregon.  Questions ranged from changes in Circadian Rhythm in space to the number and operation of satellites and many others.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Vascular Aging:  The crew participated in a continuing science session which included the use of the Bio-Monitor device to record several days of physiological data, and the collection of blood samples to assess glucose tolerance.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many International Space Station (ISS) crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) for EMUs 3008 and 3015 and Airlock cooling water loops. Conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooling loops following the 70 minute scrub. A post-launch checkout was also completed for EMU 3015 which arrived on SpX-21.

