
Microgravity Crystals: The crew performed the procedure review, pipetted and mixed solutions of varying viscosities onto the crystallization plates. The crystals will be allowed to develop over a period of 10 days in temperature-controlled conditions.  The investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects.
NREP-5 (Nanoracks External Platform mission-5) installation: In preparation for transfer and installation to the JEM Exposed Facility, the crew removed the Nanoracks External Platform (NREP) mission-4 hardware and installed the mission-5 sub payloads onto the NREP system.  NREP-5 contains the Craig-X and Astrileux sub payloads and is planned to be passed through the JEM airlock, robotically installed onto the Exposed Facility and activated at the end of this week.

Craig-X is a Flight Test Platform (FTP) designed to promote electronics testing to raise Technology Readiness Levels (TRL) at a low cost and a reduced time frame.
Astrileux evaluates the effects of space exposure on new materials that, for the first time, show optical performance in the extreme ultraviolet (EUV) wavelength range (10-20 nm).  These materials have potential for a new generation of space instrumentation that can capture EUV radiation for use in remote sensing, planet mapping, telescopes, semiconductor applications and other systems.

PL NAS (Payloads Network Attached Storage) vent clean: Using the AC Vacuum Cleaner, the crew cleaned vents on the Front, Back, and Left Side of the Payload NAS located at LAB1O6 Aft Bulkhead.  This was performed as routine maintenance.  The Payload Network Attached Storage (NAS) is a file server with 5 hard drive bays that provides a total of 20 terabytes of raw disk space when used with 4 terabyte hard drives.  Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser, and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS.
Systems:
Boeing OFT Preparations:  Today, the ISS prepared for the Boeing OFT mission arrival and performed pre-packing activities in support for future transfers. They also completed the Node 2 forward location clean out activity that moved all items from the Node 2 location and stowed them in the Airlock in preparation for the OFT vehicle arrival. Additionally, they performed a setup and checkout crew monitoring tools required for CST-100, including the CST-100 Docking Monitor application and Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP). Currently, Starliner is scheduled to launch on December 20 and dock with the ISS on December 21.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Leak Troubleshooting:  On GMT 301, the crew attempted to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Functional Checkout on Spare TOCA unit.  This activity is performed every 2 years to ensure functionality of TOCA in case of failure of our prime unit. While starting the calibration check run, the crew reported hearing priming noises (loop priming was part of the procedure) and proceeded with the procedure.  On November 5, 2019, the TOCA team determined that data review strongly indicated that water is leaking in the sample loop. Therefore, today the ISS crew temporarily installed the spare Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) in the lab and investigated the internal leak.
61S Emergency Drill: Today the ISS crew participated in the 61S Emergency Drill which is designed to prepare the crew for multiple emergency situations on the Soyuz vehicle.

