
Human Research Facility (HRF)-2 Resupply:  Kopra restocked the HRF supply kits in the HRF2 rack in the Columbus module and removed expired limited life items.  He then took photographs of the kits for downlink.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Newly arrived ISS crewmembers Kopra and Peake each completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  During the experiment they performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Space Headaches:   Peake completed another Daily Space Headaches questionnaires as part of his week-long series.  The daily questionnaires are only scheduled immediately after arrival of a new crewmember to the ISS.  Weekly questionnaires will be completed in subsequent weeks.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
NanoRacks Module Installations:  Installation of the NanoRacks modules that arrived on the Orbital ATK-4 in a NanoRacks Platform-2 locker in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) has been postponed due to issues experienced overnight with responses received from ground commands sent to the hardware.
 
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review:  With the arrival of the 45S crew, all 6 crew members discussed priorities in the event of an emergency response and how to achieve safety of the crew as well as safe configuration of the ISS. Topics covered included crew actions during emergency retreat in the Soyuz, ISS Commander responsibilities, and communication and coordination among crew members and with ground teams.
 
Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, Kopra unpacked cargo that arrived on the Cygnus vehicle.  Additional cargo operations with all three USOS crewmembers are scheduled for tomorrow.
 

