
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K):  The ARED-K components were powered on to allow continued verification and troubleshooting of data pathways needed to support experiment operations. Resistive exercise is used as a countermeasure to musculoskeletal deconditioning in microgravity and currently ISS crews perform resistive exercise using ARED. However, a major unknown is the internal bone and muscle forces developed during exercise in microgravity. In addition, squat and deadlift resistance exercise loads used in flight have to be increased to account for the loss of body weight in microgravity and it is unknown how the level of body weight replacement (BWR) affects bone and muscle loads. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the space station.
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-27 (J-SSOD-27): The crew observed and took photos of the J-SSOD-27 Clark sat-1 and Beak satellite deployments.  Some of the satellite objectives include testing trajectory change by drag modulation, communication, and imagery. J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Space Age: The crew performed a BioCell media exchange in support of the ongoing investigation. Cell culture media contains nutrients and a pH buffer to sustain cells, and needs to be exchanged periodically as the nutrients are used up and waste products accumulate. Many changes to the human body seen in microgravity resemble those associated with aging on Earth. Aging-like changes to human immune cells are reversed after return to Earth. Tissue Engineered Liver Immune Chips in Microgravity as a Novel Platform to Study the Effect of Aged Immune Cells on Behavior and Regenerative Capacity of Liver Stem Cells (Space AGE) studies how microgravity-induced aging-like changes in immune cells affect the regenerative capabilities of liver cells and their postflight recovery. Results could improve understanding of the biology of aging and its effects on disease mechanisms.
Spacecraft Fire Experiment-VI (Saffire-VI): The final cable checks of the Saffire VI experiment hardware were completed prior to shutting the Cygnus hatch. Closer to NG-19 unberth, the crew will remove the covers on the Saffire components. Understanding how fires spread in space is vital for developing fire prevention measures and fire suppression protocols, but it is difficult to perform flame-related experiments aboard a spacecraft. The Spacecraft Fire Experiments (Saffire) use the Cygnus resupply vehicle after it leaves the space station to reduce risk to crew and spacecraft. Saffire-VI, the last of the series, builds on previous results from Saffire-I through V to test flammability at different oxygen levels and to demonstrate fire detection, combustion product monitoring, and post-fire cleanup capabilities.
Space Health: The experiment hardware was gathered, and the wearable sensor garment was donned to begin a 48-hour data collection session.  The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Systems:
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew verified the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kit (EHTKs), the Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs), and Pre-Breathe Masks are all free of damage to ensure functionality. The crew spends several minutes to inspect each item and notes any visual damage. PEPS inspections are performed routinely to ensure the PEPs are in good operational condition in the case of an emergency. The PBA provides breathable O2, eye/nose/mouth protection, and two-way communications to a crewmember during a fire, rapid depressurization, or toxic spill event. 
ISS Very High Frequency-2 (VHF-2) Communications Checkout: A communications checkout was performed by the crew and ground teams between the docked Soyuz, Mission control Center – Houston (MCC-H), and MCC-Moscow. ISS VHF-2 provides the emergency back-up for Soyuz-to-ground communications.  Communication checks to confirm good read backs were also performed with Internationsl Partners (IPs).  These tests are completed annually to verify VHF communications with each VHF-equipped groundsite.
Starboard Crew Quarters (CQ) Airflow Troubleshooting: Today, the crew cleaned and inspected the intake leg of the starboard CW.  Previously over the weekend, the crew had reported low airflow in one of the on-orbit CQ. Applicable panels were removed, temporarily stowed, and cleaned using the AC Dry Vacuum and dry wipes.  The intake fan was accessed and inspected for damage.
Node 2 Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Major Air Constituent Sensors (CMACS) Install: The COTS Air Sensors was installed in the Node 2 module.  The nominal CMACS suite includes an O2 Trending Sensor, a Relative Humidity (RH) Trending sensor, and a CO2 Sensor which are connected to a Mini-PC via USB.  The Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) is the mass spectrometer that monitors several gases within the station, but operates intermittently to conserve operational life.  Implementation of the CMACS suite provides continuous monitoring for CO2, O2, and RH while the MCA is not operational.
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Borescope Inspection and Bungee Swap: The crew performed maintenance on the T2. The HD Borescope was used to inspect the T2 MTL hoses for wear and to evaluate effectiveness of a new repair method. Two new Series Bungee System (SBS) Assemblies were unstowed and installed on T2.
