
Molecular Muscle: Crewmembers performed sample inserts into the Kubik incubator facility, photography documentation, and a status check of the experiment run. The Molecular Muscle investigation examines the molecular causes of muscle abnormalities during spaceflight in order to establish effective countermeasures.
NanoRacks Module-9 (NSL Satellites Ltd-Oil Bubbles): A crewmember performed NanoRacks Module-9 operations Session-01, which involves opening the clamp on a sample tube and shaking to mix contents. NanoRacks-NSL Satellites Ltd-Oil Bubbles is a student-designed investigation that explores whether microgravity affects this mixing phenomenon in space. Data from the investigation benefits materials research and future mixing methods in space.
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems (STaARS) BioScience-4: A crewmember performed sample installation then removed the processed samples and stowed them into the Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI-3) unit. The STaARS BioScience-4 investigation examines how oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) react to microgravity, specifically the rate at which the cells proliferate and differentiate in the microgravity environment. OPCs are precursors to a type of central nervous system cells and results may help to improve neural stem cell studies, including those on tissue regrowth and organ farming.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics: A crewmember installed the new LMM wide-field camera replacing the failed FIR/LMM camera. The Biophysics-04 plate was also removed and stowed. Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work. Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. The Effect of Macromolecular Transport on Microgravity Protein Crystallization (LMM Biophysics) studies why this is the case, examining the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity
NanoRacks Module-74 (Hydrogel Formation and Drug Release in Microgravity Conditions): A crewmember activated NanoRacks Module-74. Microplates are inserted into the module and scans are initiated. Investigation of the Effects of Microgravity on Controlled Release of Antibiotics and Curing Mechanism of a Novel Wound Dressing (Hydrogel Formation and Drug Release in Microgravity Conditions) investigates formation and drug release from cross-linked or mixed hydrogels in microgravity.
TangoLab-1 & 2 (Space Tango MultiLab Locker): A crewmember installed sample cubes into TangoLab-1 and 2 and inserted one of the sample cubes into the General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator-3 (GLACIER-3). Space Tango MultiLab Locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research, development, and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS.
Rodent Research-8 (RR-8): Crewmembers transferred all animal subjects from the Dragon into habitats. The RR-8 investigation utilizes mice flown aboard the ISS, and maintained on Earth, to investigate the physiology of aging in response to microgravity and the role of aging in the onset and progression of disease.
NALCO Biofilms (Champion Studies on Microbiologically Influenced Corrosion): A crewmember removed NALCO Biofilm Group Activated Packets (GAPs) from the Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL).  Each GAP was activated by hand cracking the barrels to initiate mixture followed by vigorous shaking. The GAPs were then returned to the SABL. NALCO Biofilms (Champion Studies on Microbiologically Influenced Corrosion) examines biofilms on Earth and in space and monitors the rate of corrosion caused by microorganisms, referred to as Microbiologically Influenced Corrosion (MIC).
SpaceX (SpX)-16 Cargo Operations:  Following the opening of the Dragon hatch on Sunday December 9, the crew started removing cargo from the spacecraft.  Approximately 17 hours of cargo operations remain to be completed. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: On Sunday, Robotic Flight Controllers commanded the Mobile Transporter (MT) to translate from Worksite 7 to 6 in order to support the berthed phase of the SpX-16 mission. Then, they powered up the MSS and commanded the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to release Dragon and maneuvered it to grapple the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). The Robotics team then positioned the SPDM over the Dragon trunk to perform a survey of the external payloads using the SPDM Body cameras.

