ISS On-Orbit Status 12/17/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Underway: Week 5 of Increment 34 (three-person crew). 
 
After wakeup, FE-2 Tarelkin rebooted the Russian RSS1 &amp; RSS2 laptops and completed daily routine maintenance on the BRI smart switch router (SSR), checking its temperature via DeviceControl on the RSS1 laptop to ensure nominal operation.     [The BRI fan module consists of 4 individual fans. If one or several of these exhibit malfunction or rotation speed decreases, a combined warning is sent to the DeviceControl application on the RSS1 laptop to generate an emergency message and telemetry signal, “BRI1”. The fan module is an ORU (On-orbit Replaceable Unit).]
 
FE-1 Novitskiy undertook his 2<sup>nd</sup> MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) tests, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, preceded by PZEh-MO-8 BMM (body mass measurement) using the IM device. Evgeny Tarelkin recorded photo/video documentation.     [Supported by the RSS-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with Oleg’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.]
 
Novitskiy also performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection and also completed the daily reboot of the Russian RS1 &amp; RS2 laptops.
 
Kevin Ford unpacked two new IMAKs (ISS Medical Accessory Kits, #4068, #4069) delivered on Progress 49P and moved them to stowage.     [For Medical Kit Resupply, 49P IMAKs and existing medical packs were gathered at the beginning of the activity. Old and expiring medications/items will be removed from the medical kits one pack at a time, and resupplied medications/items will immediately be placed into the kits in order to maintain proper kit configuration. At the conclusion of the activity IMAKS, empty Ziploc bags, and old medical supplies will be discarded, and the medical kits will be restowed.]
 
In the JAXA Kibo laboratory, the CDR afterwards Hoshide serviced the FPEF MI (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility / Marangoni Inside) payload in the JAXA Kibo laboratory by disconnecting a Nano Step video cable (P208) from loc. J208.      [Two cables (P209 and P210) are already connected.]
 
Later, Kevin had ~1hr set aside for gathering/collecting US trash for stowage on the Progress 48P cargo ship-turned-trash can for burn-up during atmospheric re-entry.
 
Ford also worked on the BLB (Biolab) Rack in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), printing out a LSM (Life Support Module) gas bottles cue card and sticking it to the HM (Handling Mechanism) Door (at loc. A2_B1) with Kapton Tape, then performed BLB LSM gas bottle closing.
 
Oleg completed the periodic (every Monday) verification of the automatic IUS AntiVirus definition update on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2, as well as the manual update on the non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.     [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update.  Before the installation (on 8/8/11) of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
Afterwards, with Evgeny’s assistance in the SM, FE-1 conducted the regular monthly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization).       [This requires inspecting the condition of harnesses, belt slats, corner bracket ropes, SLD (Subject Load Device) cables &amp; exit pulley housing, IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies) and gyroscope wire ropes for any damage or defects, lubricating as required plus recording control panel time &amp; date values, and making sure that the display cable and skirt were properly secured afterwards.]
 
With RS (Russian Segment) STTS communications configured for work in MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2), Oleg Novitskiy conducted another session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), activating the hardware with electromagnet and video camcorder and completing the experiment run, which he video-recorded with the SONY HVR-Z1J for subsequent downlink via RSPI.       [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in a magnetic field (trap), investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS (Russian Segment): condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
In Node-3, Kevin performed routine maintenance on the WRS (Water Recovery System), changing out the TOCA WWB (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer Waste Water Bag) with a new one.
 
Next, Ford also conducted the approximately weekly WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.      [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
Time again for recharging the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phone in the Soyuz Descent Module, completed by Oleg Novitskiy for TMA-06M/32S (#706, docked at MRM2), a monthly routine job and the first time for 32S.     [After retrieving the phones from their location in the spacecraft Descent Module (SA, spuskayemyy apparat), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phone was returned inside its sealed SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the SA’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry &amp; landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]
 
Oleg activated the Russian payload TEKh-39 LCS (Laser Communications System, Russian: SLS) in the SM. About 3hr5m later, FE-1 copied the collected test data from the RSE-SLS A31p laptop to the RSS2 laptop for data downlink and log file dump.
 
Evgeny Tarelkin completed the routine daily &amp; weekly servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM and FGB.     [This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings of SM &amp; FGB for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for calldown.  SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers as required.]
 
Novitsky performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Kevin had ~3.5 hrs reserved for IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the Lab Deck CQ (Crew Quarters)
where he cleaned the Kabin and all systems preparatory to the arrival of the 32S crew.    [Safing was required before this activity.]
 
Afterwards, the CDR powered up and logged in the CSL (Crew Support Laptop) in the Deck CQ to allow MCC-Houston ground personnel to update the CSL-1 software from the ground. 
 
FE-2 transferred two CWCs (Contingency Water Containers, #1093 &amp; #1095) with US condensate to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container (#823). Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]
 
Continuing the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, Evgeny Tarelkin today worked in the SM to change out the four PF1-4 dust filter cartridges with spares fetched from FGB stowage.
 
Kevin again had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep (~2:30pm EST), Ford powers up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Kevin turns MPC routing off again.    [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The three crewmembers worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2).
 
Tasks listed for Evgeny &amp; Oleg on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U  to record target sites on the Earth surface, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.</li></ul> 
Conjunction Advisory:   Flight Controllers are monitoring a post-reboost burn conjunction with Object 26417 (Ariane 44LP) with a TCA (Time of Closest Approach) on 12/18 at 10:03:45pm EST. The object has a large uncertainty, which is typical with objects in highly elliptical orbits. The next time for new tracking is around 7:45pm tonight. In addition, the estimated TIG (Time of Ignition), at 8:25pm EST tomorrow for a DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) would occur less than 12 hrs before the Soyuz 33S launch (12/19, 7:12am EST. With the successful PDAM test, it may be an option should a DAM be necessary; however, until we receive official direction is received from ISS program &amp; MOD management, the standard DAM timeline will be used.  Because of the object’s large uncertainty and the upcoming Soyuz launch, this conjunction is of high concern.
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

