
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance:  Reaching and Grasping (GRASP): The crew performed GRASP quasi-free sessions. The hardware was then stowed. The purpose of GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
NanoRacks Zero-G Oven: The crew installed additional samples into the oven for processing and then transferred samples to the POLAR in preparation for return on SpX-19. Zero-G Oven examines heat transfer properties and the process of baking food in microgravity. It uses an oven designed specifically for use aboard the space station with a top temperature of 363.3° C. On future long-duration missions, fresh-baked food could have psychological and physiological benefits for crew members.
Life Support Rack (LSR): The crew performed steps to remove the H2 sensors one and two from the LSR manifold and installed safing caps in their place. Life Support Rack (LSR) is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the International Space Station to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew replaced the ACME Bypass Controller and the ACME Fuel Controller, in order to continue s-flame operations. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Systems:
SpX-19 Dragon Trunk Operations: Overnight, the spare Li-Ion battery was transferred from the SpX-19 Dragon trunk to the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP), utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator (SSRMS).  The new Li-Ion battery will be installed on the External Stowage Platform (ESP3) next week.
Boeing OFT Preparations:  Today, the ISS prepared for the Boeing OFT mission (uncrewed) arrival by completing On-board Training (OBT) that included reviewing procedures on such topics as rendezvous operations, docking, and ISS Motion Control Systems (MCS).  

