
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS, and took photos. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL):  The crew used a Grab Sample Container (GSC) to sample the air around the CAL experiment hardware.  The GSC will be returned to the ground for analysis of the sample.  CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the MSG work volume, inspected the area, and performed an exchange of the sample preform, spool and related sample items. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
ISS Ham: An ISS Ham pass was supported with the Harbor Creek School, in Harborcreek, PA, USA. Of the students asking questions during the contact, the first fifteen have earned Amateur Radio licenses, including 4 students holding extra class licenses, 2 general licenses, and 9 technicians.  Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-27 (J-SSOD-27): The crew gathered the appropriate hardware and began the installation of the J-SSOD-27 hardware to the JEM airlock slide table.  J-SSOD-27 contains the Clark sat-1 and Beak satellites, which are planned to be launched early next week. J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Omics Archive (OA): The crew collected multiple samples in support of the OA investigation. The Twins Study was a first step in mapping the integrated multi-omic profile of astronaut biospecimens to understand the health consequences of spaceflight. The OA investigation builds upon the success of that study, establishing a longitudinal archive of astronaut biospecimens and a comprehensive multi-omic dataset for use in the study of molecular, metabolic, and microbial changes associated with long-duration spaceflight. These tools facilitate research to characterize and mitigate the crew health and performance risks of such changes.
Pharmaceutical In-space Laboratory – 01 (PIL-01): The experiment cassette was removed from the ADvanced Space Experiment Processor-2 (ADSEP-2) facility, photographed, and prepared for return to the ground. ADSEP-PIL-01 studies how microgravity affects the production of various biocrystals used to treat cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and pain. Results may help improve the purity and physical properties of these biocrystals.
Space Age: The crew performed a BioCell media exchange in support of the ongoing investigation. Cell culture media contains nutrients and a pH buffer to sustain cells, and needs to be exchanged periodically as the nutrients are used up and waste products accumulate. Many changes to the human body seen in microgravity resemble those associated with aging on Earth. Aging-like changes to human immune cells are reversed after return to Earth. Tissue Engineered Liver Immune Chips in Microgravity as a Novel Platform to Study the Effect of Aged Immune Cells on Behavior and Regenerative Capacity of Liver Stem Cells (Space AGE) studies how microgravity-induced aging-like changes in immune cells affect the regenerative capabilities of liver cells and their postflight recovery. Results could improve understanding of the biology of aging and its effects on disease mechanisms.
TangoLab-3: Cube LMDA_PAR08 was removed from Tangolab-3 and installed in Powered Ascent Utility Locker-1 (PAUL1) to prepare for return to the ground. LMDA_PAR08 is an artificial retina manufacturing experiment. Space Tango’s TangoLab-3 locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS. TangoLab-3 is similar to TangoLab-1 with the primary difference being an upgraded fan system which allows for a greater heat rejection capability. This upgrade enables payloads with greater power draw and lower temperature requirements to use the facility.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew performed a VR Mental Care experiment session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain and Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis and Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the WPA using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring completed science and supplies from the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in preparation of return to Earth. SpaceX-29 will remain docked with the ISS until December.
