
Payloads:
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The Air Gas Bottle Unit was removed and an Argon Gas Bottle Unit Argon was installed. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by container less processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the Kibo Module.
Fixed Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) Smart Sensing: RFID Smart Sensing Drawer Monitor System Tags were installed onto NOD1O4 and NOD1S4 Zero-Gravity Storage Rack doors. RFID readers and antennas have operated on the ISS since 2017 and were installed on a robotic free-flying Astrobee in January 2021. RFID-Enabled Autonomous Logistics Management-3 (REALM-3) (RFID Smart Sensing) builds on this work, by extending the reach of RFID signals behind stowage racks and placing motion sensors imbedded in RFID tags on rack doors. Results could increase the accuracy of RFID inventory and item location.
STaARS BioScience-15: Hermetic Microplate samples were inserted into a Box Module and placed into the MELFI-1 cold stowage facility. STaARS BioScience-15 will be a mission to analyze cell biological changes due to the effects of microgravity to aid in the development of diagnostics and treatments for certain types of bone disease and cancers. The goal of this investigation is to confirm previous findings, specifically the inhibition of growth of aggressive cancer cells in a microgravity environment.
Systems:
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today, the crew started with a review of all detailed procedures and references package in preparation of the upcoming 4A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Install on December 19th. They then participated in a conference with ground teams to further discuss final operations, get ahead tasks, and EVA timelines. During this EVA the EV crew will install a fourth IROSA to the 4A power channel on the port truss of the ISS in hopes of generating more power to the ISS.
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Four Bed Carbon Dioxide (4BCO2) Scrubber Samples: Prior to sampling, the crew set up hardware by installing the Quick Disconnect (QD) Sampling Adapter to the rack. The crew then performed sampling of CO2 effluent from the 4BCO2 Scrubber. 4BCO2 is a full-scale CO2 removal Flight Demonstration Unit (FDU) capable of supporting exploration sized crews. The system operates similarly to current Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) with two cycles to concurrently scrub air. 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Lab Robotics Workstation (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Cable Inspection: Today, the crew troubleshooted previous issues seen on the Lab RWS DCP. In order to recreate the failure mode, the crew manipulated the Lab RWS Trackball and associated buttons to try to reproduce the problem. The Trackball cable was demated from the bottom of DCP, inspected, and left secured out of the way. The primary purpose of the RWS is to provide the capability to control and monitor Mobile Servicing System (MSS) equipment to an Intravehicular (IV) crewmember located in the pressured modules of the ISS or to flight controllers on the ground. 
IFM Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew R&R’d the Pre-Treat Tank in the WHC. This process included configuring the new Pre-Treat Tank, removing the old one, replacing with the new one, maintenance checkout, and a functionality test. The WHC is a modified ACY (Russian Toilet) system that was altered to integrated into the USOS rack. The urine output by the WHC is fed directly into the UPA and is purified to create potable water.

