
Payloads:
Cerebral Ageing: Sampling and media exchanges were performed on the experiment BioCells. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space of cerebral organoids.  Cerebral organoids are 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain at the molecular and cellular level. Also included for analysis in this investigation are markers of cell stress, metabolism, and ageing in healthy control samples, and cerebral organoids with mutations that lead to accelerated ageing. With this investigation, the research team seeks to establish and validate a pipeline that can be used for experiments with human cells in future long-duration spaceflight.
ElectroMagnetic Levitator (EML): The crew opened the helium valve and closed both argon valves.  This allows samples to be processed under different environments. EML is a multi-user facility that provides containerless melting and solidification of electrically conductive, spherical samples, under ultra-high vacuum and/or high purity gas environments. Heating and positioning of the sample are achieved by electromagnetic fields generated by a coil system. The EML supports research in the field of meta-stable states and phases as well as in the field of measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys in the stable and undercooled state.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the MSG work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-27 (J-SSOD-27): The crew gathered the appropriate hardware and completed the installation of the J-SSOD-27 hardware to the JEM airlock slide table.  J-SSOD-27 contains the Clark sat-1 and Beak satellites, which are planned to be launched early next week. J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Mochii:  The crew performed a Mochii power cycle and routine fan vent cleaning for the Mochii electron microscope system.  Mochii is a miniature Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy capability to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS.
NanoRacks Module-9 (NR Mod-9): The crew gained access to the NR Mod-9 experiment containers, opened a subset of the mixture tube clamps, and shook the tubes. Experiments in the tubes manipulated today include a wide range of biological samples. NR Mod-9 is a module containing a complement of Mixture Tubes. These Mixture Tubes each contain a separate experiment that can be activated and deactivated while in zero-G. Tubes are a low-cost, high-return science opportunity for students to send experiments to ISS and encompass a wide range of science/disciplines. Mixture Tubes are very popular with middle and high school science programs and have also been used by private company research, technical schools, and individual research.
Omics Archive (OA): The crew collected samples in support of the OA investigation. The Twins Study was a first step in mapping the integrated multi-omic profile of astronaut biospecimens to understand the health consequences of spaceflight. The OA investigation builds upon the success of that study, establishing a longitudinal archive of astronaut biospecimens and a comprehensive multi-omic dataset for use in the study of molecular, metabolic, and microbial changes associated with long-duration spaceflight. These tools facilitate research to characterize and mitigate the crew health and performance risks of such changes.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The crew removed the memory card and transferred the data, cleaned the air inlet screen, and then returned the SpaceTED unit to nominal operating mode.  Exposure to space radiation can introduce hazards to crew member health and the function of equipment in space. Building on a previous space station study, SpaceTED aims to develop a device to collect data on crew radiation exposure and characterize the space radiation environment. This low-cost, portable device may be able to better assess radiation risks and help protect crew members and systems on long-term missions.
Systems:
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring completed science and supplies to the SpX-29 cargo vehicle in preparation for its return to Earth. SpX-29 will remain docked to the ISS until December.
Russian EDV Inspection: Today, the crew performed a visual inspection of a Russian EDV to determine if its contents can be processed through the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). Imagery of the Russian EDV was downlinked for ground teams to analyze.
Crew Tablet Updates: Today, the crew configured a tablet on-orbit to allow ground teams to perform an operating system update overnight. These updates ensure that the crew is able to successfully perform their on-orbit tasks efficiently.
