
Progress 71P ISS Reboost: Tonight at 9:05 PM CT, the ISS will complete a 5m 37s reboost using 71P thrusters. The purpose of the reboost is to start the necessary phasing to support upcoming Russian Visiting Vehicles in 2019; ISS velocity will be increased by 0.65 meters per second (m/s) and ISS altitude will increase by 1.15 kilometers (km).   
Rodent Research-8 (RR-8): Today a crewmember performed Rodent Research Setup in the Life Science Glovebox (LSG) in preparation for upcoming operations. The Rodent Research-8 (RR-8) investigation utilizes mice flown aboard the International Space Station (ISS), and maintained on Earth, to investigate the physiology of aging in response to microgravity and the role of aging in the onset and progression of disease.
MISSE-10: Today a crewmember installed seven MISSE-10 Mission Sample Containers (MSC) on to the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT-2) and then deployed the JEM slide table back into the JEM airlock and depressed the airlock in preparation for external deployment. The Materials International Space Station Experiment-10-NASA (MISSE-10-NASA) hosts a suite of eight NASA investigations aboard the Materials International Space Station Flight Facility (MISSE-FF).   The MISSE-10 mission exposes 188 samples consisting of radiation protection, radiation detection, laminates, coatings, polymetric, high-efficiency low-mass solar cell systems, composites and additively-manufactured materials to the space environment.
TangoLab-2 (Space Tango MultiLab Locker): Today a crewmember removed the Cube EMLT_TOC01 and installed Cube TNGO_FAN02 which is an experiment called Space Tango Fan designed to assist air movement throughout the TangoLab facility for specific payloads. TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS. 
Eye Exams: Today the US crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.

