
Russian EVA 37: Kotov (EV1) and Ryazansky (EV2) performed RS EVA 37 with a duration of 8 hours and 7 minutes.  During the EVA Hopkins was isolated in the MRM-2/36S while Tyurin, Mastracchio, and Wakata had access to all modules forward of the SM / DC1.   Tasks completed during the EVA included:

Installation of Yakor foot restraint on VRM station
Removal of foot restraint ingress aid
Removal of VSPLESK experiment from SM large diameter and it’s jettison
Installation of SEISMOPROGNOZ experiment on SM large diameter
Install Payload Boom on SM large diameter

The High Resolution Camera (HRC) and Medium Resolution Camera (MRC) were installed and cables routed, however due to unsuccessful checkout of the cameras they were uninstalled and brought back inside the ISS.  The planned tasks not completed during this EVA include the retrieval of СКК #2-СО cassette container, removal and jettison of MPAC & SEED frame and photos of MLI of RS exterior.
 Microbiome Investigation: FE-3 Hopkins perform his Flight Day 60 session of the Microbiome investigation. He answered survey questions, collected body sample, and inserted the samples into cold stowage.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). Samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken periodically. The study will assess the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments and the related human health risks.
Space Headaches Investigation:  FE-3 Hopkins , FE5 Mastracchio, and FE-6 Wakata filled out a weekly questionnaire for ESA’s Space Headaches investigation.  They complete these questionnaires at the end of every week throughout their mission. Headaches can be a common complaint during space flights and can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of astronauts and cosmonauts which can influence performance during a space mission. This investigation involves obtaining pre-, in-flight and post-flight data via the questionnaires to evaluate the prevalence and characteristics of crewmembers’ headaches in microgravity.  Investigators will use this data to assess crewmember headache episodes, analyze characteristics of the headaches and provide the basis for developing future
COSMO Shoot: Wakata set up the COSMO laptop and 4K camera in preparation for capturing images of the Earth surface across the US and Canada.  He later removed the 4K camera hardware and temporarily stow it in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).

