ISS On-Orbit Status 12/24/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off duty.  First day of full crew complement of 6 for Expedition 30/31.   Christmas Eve.
 
 &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 43 years ago today at ~5:00am ET in the morning, the crew of Apollo 8, Frank Borman, Jim Lovell and Bill Anders, fired the Service Module Propulsion System for 4 min 6.5 sec behind the Moon (i.e., out of our sight), beginning the first orbit (a 312 x 112 km ellipse) of their historical 10-orbit circumlunar exploration, humanity’s greatest adventure of modern times. At 9:31pm in the evening (85h 40min Mission Elapsed Time), the crew took turns in reading opening passages from Genesis: “In the beginning God created heavens and the earth.....and God saw that it was good.”&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
 · Sleep Cycle Shift: Wakeup this morning: 4:30am, sleep: 4:30pm EST, returning to normal tomorrow.
 
 After wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 Also at wakeup, FE-5 Kuipers set up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) for covering subsequent activities, and then he and CDR Burbank performed the ESA ROALD-2 (Role of Apoptosis in Lymphocyte Depression 2) experiment.     [Activities included installation of eight ROALD-2 ECs (Experiment Containers) and a dummy EC in the KUBIK-3 thermostatic container at +37 degC.  About 5h30m – 6h30m after the installation, Dan &amp; André removed four ECs from KUBIK-4, restarted the KUBIK centrifuge and inserted the removed samples into MELFI-1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) Dewar 2 at -80 degC for thermal preservation while on ISS. Background: ROALD-2, a cell-biology study of the human immune system, was preceded by ROALD-1 in 2008 which showed that the programmed cell death (Apoptosis) rate of human immune cells is enhanced in microgravity. This could be responsible for the immune system impairment observed in micro-G. Objective of ROALD-2 is to investigate the role of the endocannabinoid Anandamide (polyunsaturated fatty acid) in the regulation of immune processes in human lymphocytes in micro-G. Anandamide is a signal for the cells to make a choice between life and death. Therefore, it potentially contributes to the immune deficiency observed in Space. Benefit will be better understanding of the role of Anandamide in the immune system. Outcome could help to find countermeasures against the influence of micro-G, especially for long term missions.]
 
 FE-1 Shkaplerov had  a 40-min slot set aside on his timeline as a backup for the test of the MBRL, AFU Antenna Feeder Unit, ATV Hand Controller and PU Control Panel of the ATV PCE (Automated Transfer Vehicle / Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) on 12/22.     [The PCE testing is in preparation for the ground fueling of the ATV3 tanks, which occurs approximately two and a half months prior to ATV3 launch. ATV3 is scheduled to launch on 3/9/2012. Tanking depends on functioning onboard MBRL systems.] 
 
 At ~10:50am EST, Anton Shkaplerov (call sign: RS0ISS) conducted an amateur/ham radio session with Kiev Airspace School students at the Kiev National Aviation University.  Questions were uplinked beforehand.    [“How difficult would it be for a girl to succeed in the “space business” and fly to space?  How long does it take for you to get accustomed to the food that you eat at the station?  Aren’t you haunted by the feeling that you and the station are but a tiny bit in space?  Do you feel any kind of mental stress because of that?  I’ve read that you will be playing computer games at the station.  Is this true? Which ones?  Are there superstitions or signs in your work?  I’m from Donetsk which is an environmentally stressed area. Do you see the most polluted areas of Ukraine from space, what are they?  Do you have any kind of plan in case of emergency at the station?  How long will oxygen last in your space suit?  Tell us, do you always follow all the rules or there may be situations when you deviate from food or work schedules?  People depend of gravity. How do human biological rhythms respond to micro-g environment? What do you do if you can’t sleep?  In your opinion, is a stay in space harmful to your mental health, did you ever have a depression? How do you dispose of waste in space?”]
 
 Burbank used the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer -O2) to take oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM and COL.
 
 Dan also filled out his 4th weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer). [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software. Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins. The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health. Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 Anatoly performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM; [regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 André completed his daily task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire which he started after Soyuz launch and continues on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer) for his first week in space.     (Photos of the two questionnaires from his time on Soyuz were downlinked to the ground).
 
 At ~8:05am EST, FE-1 Shkaplerov conducted his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 At ~8:35am, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 FE-4, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 had their (currently daily) PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) after arrival via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, André at ~7:00am, Oleg at ~1:00pm, Don at ~1:30pm.
 
 The “old” crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR).
 
 Jobs listed for Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –
 · A TV “Message to Santa Claus” from Anton to Japanese children as per request from JAXA,
 · Another ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on the glaciers of Patagonia, Kolka Glacier, River Terek, Volga River delta, Volcanoes Hudson, Etna, Stromboli, A. Darwin. Arenal Volcano and Poas Volcano,
 · A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, 
 · A ~15-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3X photos with Nikkor 80-200 mm lens and the SONY HD video camcorder to record color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, and
 · Preparing &amp; downlinking more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
 
