
Payloads:
Artemis Hybrid Electronic Radiation Assessor (HERA) on Space Station (A-HoSS): The A-HoSS hardware was relocated from the LAB to the JEM and continues to collect radiation telemetry. A-HoSS demonstrates software to refine data analysis and operational products for future exploration missions. It modifies the HERA, built to operate as the primary radiation detection system for Orion and certified for flight on Artemis 2, to operate on the space station 
Glovebox Freezer: The Glovebox Freezer was installed into the Life Science Glovebox (LSG). A leak check was performed on the Glovebox Freezer Quick Disconnect (QD) connections. The Electronics Control Unit (ECU) was temp stowed. The Glovebox Freezer integrates into the LSG and Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) to provide rapid freeze capability in support of biological sciences.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Internal Ball Camera 2: JEM Camera Robot 2 release and docking checkout part 2 operations were completed. JEM Internal Ball Camera 2 demonstrates technology for automating video and photos of research activities. Crew time is one of the most valuable resources on the ISS, and many simple, repetitive tasks could be automated. This frees up crew time for more important activities.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The Secure Digital (SD) card was removed from the SpaceTED and the data was downlinked. The fan air inlet was cleaned. Exposure to space radiation can introduce hazards to crew member health and the function of equipment in space. Building on a previous space station study, SpaceTED aims to develop a device to collect data on crew radiation exposure and characterize the space radiation environment. This low-cost, portable device may be able to better assess radiation risks and help protect crew members and systems on long-term missions.
Systems:
JEM NG-20 Stowage Reconfiguration: Stowage Consolidation was performed in the JEM to make space for items arriving on the upcoming NG-20 cargo mission.
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Calibration: As part of routine EVA maintenance, the TAK was installed onto the PGT and used to record output torque data.  Five data points were taken for each PGT setting, which was then downlinked for analysis on the ground. The next planned EVA is in early 2024, where the crew will perform a spacewalk during the planned Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval 2.5 EVA.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis and Data Record:The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: As part of ISS standard system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through ventilation inlets and outlets throughout USOS modules (Airlock, Node 1, 2, & 3, Cupola, NRAL, LAB). The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that ideal atmospheric condition is maintained throughout ISS.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS EveryWear (EVW) Medication and Nutrition Tracking: The crew recorded daily nutrition and medication intake. EVW is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general.
Russian EDV Inspection: Today, the crew performed a visual inspection of a Russian EDV to determine if its contents can be processed through the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). Imagery of the Russian EDV was downlinked for ground teams to analyze.
