
CIR/ACME (Combustion Integration Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments): In support of the continuing s-Flame investigation, the crew exchanged the ACME Bypass Controller and the ACME Fuel Controller.  These controllers allow different flow regimes to be used for the experiment.  The purpose of s-Flame is to advance our ability to predict the structure and dynamics, including extinction and instabilities, of both soot-free and sooty flames. The results may contribute to the development of lean-burn engines for improved efficiency and reduced pollutant emissions here on Earth.  S-Flame is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME which is designed to study gaseous flames.
Confined Combustion: The crew and ground teams worked together to perform test burns on 2 samples.  There was some initial difficulty obtaining the desired airflow, but this was corrected by the crew.  Confined Combustion examines the behavior of flame as it spreads in differently-shaped confined spaces in microgravity.  Flame spread observations are translated into mathematical models for use in understanding the results and applying them to areas with different shapes.  In a recent NASA project (Saffire), a large-scale flame spread investigation shows that flames spread more slowly in a large confined space than in a smaller space even if all other environmental conditions are the same (oxygen, pressure, flow speed, etc). The faster flame spread in smaller chambers is suspected to be due to a combination of thermal expansion during combustion and tunnel flow acceleration. Radiation heat feedback from chamber walls may also be a factor.
Fluid Shifts: Day 2 of the Chibis ops was performed, closing out the science activities for this Fluid Shifts session.  The ground team did experience a recurrence of the OCT (Optical Coherence Tomography) system disconnecting from the software, but this occurred after data collection was complete and there were no impacts.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Systems:
T2 Monthly Inspection: As part of regular maintenance to ensure that the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition, the crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play.
Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Preparation: Today, the crew made an adjustment to the Supply Damper Valve to configure cabin airflow for dual CCAA operations.

