
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements: The second of three 49S subjects completed their Flight Day 45 blood draw with assistance from a Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Operator in support of the first part of the Fluid Shift activities – Diultion Measurement. Upon wakeup the subject collected saliva, blood and urine and insert them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer. Throughout the day, the subject completed additional urine, blood, and saliva collections and inserted the samples into MELFI. Fluid Shifts is divided into three experiment portions – Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure).  The experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronauts’ eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Japanese-Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-6 (J-SSOD-6) Installation: The crew completed the J-SSOD-6 installation activities on the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table.  The four deployers, holding six satellites, will be grappled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) and deployed in January. The J-SSOD facility provides a reliable, safe and economically viable means of deploying research small satellites into Earth orbit. Atmospheric and surface monitoring, radio communications testing, and small object and sample return to the ground for testing and analysis are all potential candidates for this facility.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Troubleshooting: The crew performed investigative troubleshooting steps to aid in the removal of a stuck MDCA from the CIR Combustion Chamber. Using a boroscope and a feeler tool, the crew attempted to locate suspected Foreign Object Debris (FOD) along the guide rails. The crew was unable to locate any debris, and ground controllers are reviewing the video taken from the boroscope. Once removed, the MDCA will be replaced with the next planned experiment, Cool Flames Investigation (CFI).  CFI provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out but continue burning at a much lower temperature with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3008 Loop Scrub: Last Friday the crew attempted to perform the EMU 3008 loop scrub which could not be completed due to a leak at the Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) Display and Control Module (DCM) interface.  Earlier today the crew removed the SCU however during the installation of the new SCU they encountered resistance while mating the SCU connection.  The SCU did not receive power upon activation. The crew reported finding damage to the connecter during an inspection of the connectors.  Based on ground specialist recommendations the crew used pliers to unbend the SCU connector back shell prior to them remating the SCU to the UIA.  The new SCU has been reinstalled and it powered up nominally.  The crew will complete the checkout of the new SCU and EMU 3008 Loop Scrub later this week. 

