
67 Progress (67P) Undock: 67P undocked from the Service Module (SM) aft port at 7:03 PM CST on Wednesday evening.  The Deorbit burn was completed at 10:10 PM CST. 
Spaceflight-induced Hypoxic/ROS Signaling (APEX-05):  The crew harvested thale cress from all 20 Petri plates in which the plants have been growing in the Veggie facility for the APEX-05 experiment.  They took close-up photos of each plate and inserted samples from the plants into fixation tubes, which were placed into cold stowage.  The Spaceflight-induced Hypoxic/ROS Signaling (APEX-05) experiment grows different wild and mutant varieties of Arabidopsis thaliana, in order to understand how their genetic and molecular stress response systems work in space. The plants are grown from seeds in the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS.  They are harvested and frozen samples are returned to Earth for detailed laboratory analysis.
Amyloid: The crew retrieved the second set of Amyloid samples from the measurement experiment unit on the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and placed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). Amyloid fibrils prepared in the microgravity environment of the ISS are returned to Earth for analysis through Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and electron microscopy. Amyloid fibrils are the peptide or protein aggregates known to be associated with various diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease and diabetes.  It is expected that this study will provide additional insight into the mechanism of amyloid fibril formation.  
MagVector: Today the crew set up a cable to transfer data from the 7-day MagVector #15 run #15 that was completed today. This European Space Agency investigation studies how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor provide insight into ways that the Earth’s magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research may help improve future ISS experiments and offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: Using the RED camera, the crew took images of the Australian desert today.  This investigation creates a series of videos showcasing Earth from space. These videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap and Commercial Resupply Services (CRS)-2 Feasibility Assessment:  The crew will review an overview of the EMU swap plan. EMU 3004 launched to ISS on Dragon in the Short EMU (SEMU) Launch Enclosure (SLE) and EMU 3010 will be returning.  The crew will transfer the SLE with EMU 3004 to Node 1 and remove the EMU.  They will swap the Vent Port and Battery Connector Covers between EMU 3004 and 3010. The SLE will be reinstalled into Dragon using new upper mounting pins and then EMU 3010 will be installed into the SLE in the Dragon cabin.  The hatch for CRS-2 will be too small to allow the SLE to be transferred to Node 1, so EMU rotations will need to occur in the CRS-2 Dragon cabin.  Performing the installation of EMU 3010 into the SLE in the Dragon cabin will build confidence and provide feedback for performing the swaps on CRS-2.
Simplified Aid for Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Rescue (SAFER) Swap: SAFER 1016, on orbit has expired and SAFER 1018 was delivered on Dragon.  The crew will unpack SAFER 1018, install the battery, and perform a checkout.   They will pack SAFER 1016 for return on Dragon.
Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Bolt R&R:  The crew will removed the failed CBM Powered Bolt 1-3 on the Node 2 Nadir Bulkhead and will replace it with a new bolt.  The bolt showed anomalous signature during SpaceX-12 berthing and was masked for the SpaceX-13 berthing.

