
Payloads:
Low Temp Protein Crystal Growth (LT PCG): The crew retrieved the LT PCG sample container from the Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST), initiated the experiment, and then stowed the sample container back in FROST.  The objective of the LT PCG investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail; the structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs, and to explore the mystery of our lives. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a SpaceX Dragon Cargo Vehicle and crystallized at 4℃ using the counter-diffusion method.
Microgravity as a Model for Accelerated Skeletal Muscle Ageing (MicroAge):  The crew installed the 24 MicroAge Experiment Containers (ECs) in Kubik 5.  In the MicroAge investigation, synthetic human muscle constructs are housed within specially designed experimental containers and exposed to microgravity on board the ISS. A proportion of the muscle constructs is electrically stimulated to induce contractions under microgravity conditions or exposed to artificial gravity via centrifugation. Samples are frozen and returned to Earth for analyses that provides information on whether muscles exposed to microgravity show a failure of adaptations to contractile activity similar to that seen in elderly subjects.
Moderate Temperature Protein Crystal Growth (MT PCG): The crew initiated the MT PCG experiment, and then stowed the sample container in FROST.  The objective of the JAXA MT PCG investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail; the structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs, and to explore the mystery of our lives. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a cargo resupply vehicle and crystallized at 20°C using the counter-diffusion method.
Nanoracks: The crew installed Nanoracks Modules 63, 94, and 100 into Nanoracks Mainframe Alpha.  Nanoracks Mainframe Alpha is an EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack sub-facility designed to provide thermal control, power, and data management to individual Nanoracks Module experiments. The modules themselves are designed to a very limited and specific form factor that fits inside Mainframe Alpha, so Mainframe Alpha supports a wide variety of science that can change on each mission.
Nutrition Monitoring for the ISS (NutrISS): The crew logged their food and beverage intake using the EveryWear application.  Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. On the basis of this data, it is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss of crew members.
Tangolab-4: The crew installed the two cubes onto their cards, and then installed the cards into the TangoLab-4 facility.  Space Tango’s TangoLab locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS.
Touching Surfaces: The crew performed a periodic touching of the Touch Arrays which are deployed in five different locations in the US segment of ISS.  Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the ISS) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space.  This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS.  The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Systems: 
Dragon SpX-24 Arrival Activities: The crew continued activities related to SpX-24 arrival, including continued cargo transfer ops and On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Emergency Review. The SSCs used for docking monitoring yesterday were moved back into JEM and Node 2.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope (CAR) Flip: Today crew completed a maintenance activity for the ARED to remove and flip both CARs such that ropes are installed with splices on opposite ends as pre-flip. Use of the exercise rope during cable exercises causes a portion of the CARs to experience cyclic flexural loads during operations. This activity results in the topes being “pre-stretched” which will double the life of the CARs, reducing the number of ropes that need to be built, tested, and flown in the future.

