
USOS 4A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Install Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Replan: Today’s EVA was cancelled and will be rescheduled for tomorrow December 22nd. This morning, as the crew and ground teams prepared for today’s EVA, updated tracking data on space debris showed a close approach to station. Based on the data and per Flight Rules, the flight control team aborted the EVA and executed a Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM). The maneuver used the Roscosmos Progress 81 thrusters to provide an extra measure of distance away from the predicted track of the debris. Thruster firing occurred at 7:42 AM CST. The burn duration was 10 minutes and 21 seconds with a Delta-V of 1.0 m/s. The ISS is now in a nominal configuration.
Payloads:
Plant Habitat: The crew gathered four carbon dioxide bottles, removed the vent valves, and prepared them for return on SpX-26. Plant Habitat will be used to support the Plant Habitat-03 experiment in the near future. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This investigation could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food, air, and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Systems:
Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and both SpX-26 Dragon Cargo Vehicle and the Cygnus NG-18 cargo vehicle. SpX-26 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until early January before it departs the ISS to bring back science payloads and other cargo to Earth while NG-18 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until the end of January before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.

