
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) white light source replacement:  During Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE-M3) operations last week, the white light lamp burned out.  Today, Wilmore opened up the FIR and replaced the lamp, enabling operations to continue.  In the ACE-M-3 investigation, a model colloidal system is used to observe the microscopic behavior of liquids and gases separating from each other, near the critical point, via a process called spinodal decomposition. Previous ISS experiments observed the macroscopic behavior for weeks of slow separation, while this experiment looks at the level of individual particles, with the aid of a new microscope that allows observation of the behavior at short times. The ISS is a unique environment for these experiments, as liquids and gases of the same material almost invariably have different densities, and the lack of gravity prevents sedimentation.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP) Sample Initiation: Wilmore set up the BCAT Module for the BCAT-KP investigation, homogenized sample 5 and set up the camera intervalometer to initiate automated pictures. BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Columnar-to-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification Processing (CETSOL) sample removal:  Cristoforetti removed the CETSOL sample 6 which was processed in the Microgravity Science Laboratory (MSL) on GMT days 328 and 329 (November 24 and 25).  This is the final sample in the currently planned set of samples for processing in MSL, and will be returned on SpaceX-5.  The CETSOL investigation aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is of substantial importance to processes in producing materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys.
Circadian Rhythms:  Cristoforetti donned the Circadian Rhythms equipment and will wear it for 36 hours. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
ATV and Dragon cargo operations:  Virts and Wilmore performed cargo operations to prepare hardware for loading on ATV-5 and pre-pack for return on Dragon.

