
SpaceX-29 (SpX-29) Undock and Return: SpX-29 Cargo Dragon successfully undocked from the ISS on Thursday, December 21st, at 4:00 PM CST. Shortly after, Dragon completed a short return trajectory and splashed down safely off the coast of Tallahassee, FL at 11:32 AM CST. SpX-29 was successfully recovered, and returned cargo and payloads to the ground, concluding its 40 day mission.
Northrup Grumman 19 (NG-19) Cygnus Departure: Today, Cygnus was unberthed from the Node 1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS), then maneuvered to the release position and released for departure at 7:05 AM CST. Cygnus is carrying a Spacecraft Fire Experiment (Saffire-VI), which will run until January 8th.  After the Saffire-VI experiment has concluded, Cygnus, filled with waste/trash from the space station packed by the crew, will perform a destructive re-entry into the Earth’s atmosphere.
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K):  The crew setup up the experiment hardware, calibrated the motion capture system, installed the equipment and body markers, and then performed an ARED-K experiment session. Resistive exercise is used as a countermeasure to musculoskeletal deconditioning in microgravity and currently ISS crews perform resistive exercise using ARED. However, a major unknown is the internal bone and muscle forces developed during exercise in microgravity. In addition, squat and deadlift resistance exercise loads used in flight have to be increased to account for the loss of body weight in microgravity and it is unknown how the level of body weight replacement (BWR) affects bone and muscle loads. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the space station.
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Growth and Extinction Limit (CIR/So FIE/GEL): The crew gained access the CIR rack and started the work to replace experiment samples, filters, igniter, etc. This will allow the continuation of the GEL series of experiments, and is the second day of a 2-day series of activities. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. The GEL experiment studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the MSG work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Systems:
NG-19 Release Support Operations: In support of Ng-19 release, the crew performed operations to support ground teams working the event. The Robotic Workstation (RWS) was manned to monitor the vehicle’s release and departure.  After NG-19 release, equipment used in previous closeout activities was teared down and stowed, including the Pressure Management Device (PMD) and the Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK).
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: The crew performed routine EVA activities to prepare for upcoming EVA operations in early 2024. The Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) was used to record output torque data from the EVA Pistol Grip Tool (PGT), which was then downlinked for analysis on the ground.  An Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) water tank half dump and fill was also completed on EMU 3013. In early 2024, the crew will perform a spacewalk during the planned Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval 2.5 EVA.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Starboard Crew Quarters (CQ) Blockage Test: Troubleshooting was performed on the Starboard CQ Fan Intake.  Recently, the crew reported low airflow within their CQ.  At the time, onboard telemetry did not notify ground teams of any fan failure or blocked intake.  Today, the crew tested the airflow sensor via a blockage test by covering the inlet screen with a large bag and waiting for a Caution & Warning (C&W) messages.  Within a few minutes of the test, ground teams received expected Single Fan Failure C&W messages, confirming a functional airflow sensor.  The Starboard CQ is GO for use, but is still suffering lower-than-normal airflow.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) and Lab Window Inspections: The crew performed a window inspection on the JPM and Lab windows, during which they documented contamination (smudges, particulates) and damage (scratches, cracks) that were on the window pane surfaces. Emphasis was placed on the exterior surface of the debris pane and interior surface of the pressure pane. Window inspections are performed on a routine basis to monitor window conditions.
