
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements: The 49S subject, with blood draw assistance from a Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Operator, performed the first part of the Fluid Shift activities – Dilution Measurement. Upon wakeup the subject collected saliva, blood and urine and inserted them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer. Throughout the day, the crew will perform more urine, blood, and saliva collections, inserting the samples into MELFI as well. Fluid Shifts is divided into three experiment portions – Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure).  The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage. 
Aerosol Samplers Cartridge Removal: The crew closed and removed the Active Aerosol Sampler (AAS) in the LAB and PMM locations. The battery powered AAS actively pulls in air and collects particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel. During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in the EM for analysis.
Veg-03 Harvest and Consumption: The crew performed the second of two consumption harvests of the Outredgous Romaine Lettuce from the Veggie facility today.  The fourth and final harvest next week is scheduled, where the harvested leaves will be placed in MELFI for return. The overall goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows using ‘Outregous’ Red Romaine lettuce. Future long-duration missions into the solar system, will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which means growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments, but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and ISS made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the new Veggie hardware, which crew members will soon use to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables in space. Tests determine which types of microorganisms are present in space-grown cabbage, providing baseline data for future crop-growing efforts. Behavioral health surveys assess the impact of growing plants on crew morale and mood.
Node 1 (N1) Galley Rack Operations: The crew rotated the galley rack and routed and installed the galley data cable between the N1 aft/port endcone gore panel and the N1 Utility Interface Panel (UIP). 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance: The crew completed the following in preparation for upcoming EVA’s:

EMU 3006 Loop Scrub
EMU 3008 Loop Scrub – was cancelled due to a water leak at the Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU).  Time will be scheduled next week to changeout the SCU and complete the EMU 3008 loop scrub.
Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garments (LVCGs) filled with water
Conductivity tests


