
62 Progress (62P) Docking:  62P completed its 34 orbit rendezvous with ISS and successfully docked to Docking Compartment (DC)-1 at 4:27 AM CST.  After docking, Volkov successfully performed leak checks and subsequently opened the hatches.
 
Biochemical Profile and Cardio Ox:  Peake has performed his Flight Day 15 session blood and urine collections for the Biochem Profile and Cardio Ox investigations.  The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.
 
Ocular Health:  Kelly and Kornienko completed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) testing and Kelly performed a fundoscopy activity in support of the Ocular Health investigation.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit Loop Scrub:  Kopra configured Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) suits 3010 and 3011 for loop scrubbing.  Once the scrubbing activity was complete, he reconfigured hardware in order to perform Iodination of Ion Filters for both suits.  Samples containing 250 mL of the water were obtained after the loop scrub activity to determine the effectiveness of the filtering.  10 mL of this water sample were used for a conductivity test onboard ISS and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis.
 
Spare Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Checkout:  Peake configured the port Maintenance Work Area (MWA) within Node 2 and connected power and data cables onto a spare SSU.  Once cables were connected, power was applied to the SSU and a ground led checkout was successfully performed to ensure valid operations of the SSU’s firmware.  The checkout confirmed no health flags and associated refreshes were completed.  The SSU has been declared GO to replace SSU 1B during an Extravehicular Activity (EVA) planned for January 15th.  The currently installed SSU had experienced an anomaly last month on November 13th.
 

