
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the MSG work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Life Support rack (LSR): Following the software load and ADLink mini-PC troubleshooting, the Local Area Network (LAN) was returned to its initial configuration. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR is planned operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Calibration Check and Data Record: The crew performed a checkout on the TOCA calibrations performed over the past two days. A sample bag with a known makeup was analyzed and data downlinked to ground specialists to compare against known results.  TOCA primarily serves as a general indication of overall water quality of the Water Processor (potable water).
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Operations: The crew completed a series of routine HMS operations with support from the Crew Medical Officer.  Activities completed include ISS EverWear (EVW) Nutrition and Medication Tracking, a Venous Thromboembolism Scan, an Ultrasound 2 Scan, and a Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT). 
Countermeasures System (CMS) Heart Rate Monitor (HRM) Troubleshooting:  Today, the crew performed troubleshooting steps on the HRM connection between Teal Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) and Treadmill 2 (T2).  Previously, there have been connectivity issues between the HRM and the two devices.  The crew discovered the HRM cable had been disconnected between the HRM and T2.  After reconnecting, the issue was resolved with T2.  HRM connects to CEVIS via Bluetooth and still retains connectivity issues.  A lack of HRM data does not affect crew exercise and CEVIS remains GO for use.
SpX-29 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued transferring science and supplies to the SpaceX-29 cargo vehicle in support of science and ISS operations. Data was downlinked to compare real values versus expected values of the cargo vehicle.  SpX-29 is scheduled to undock from the ISS tonight at 8:00 PM CST. 
Node 3 Oxygen (O2) Trending sensor USB Cable Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew performed an R&R on the O2 trending sensor USB cable in Node 3.  The cable was removed and a spare cable successfully connected to the sensor.  The O2 trending sensor is a part of the Node 3 Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Major Air Constituent Sensors (CMACS), which send continuous gas trending data to ground specialists for analysis.
