ISS On-Orbit Status 12/20/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 Soyuz TMA-03M/29S Launch Preparations: At the Baikonur/Kazakhstan Cosmodrome, L-1 preparations continue for tomorrow’s launch of the Soyuz TMA-22 spacecraft (8:16:15am EST; 7:16:16pm local). 
 
 After wakeup, Anton Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 Before breakfast &amp; first exercise, FE-1 Shkaplerov &amp; FE-2 Ivanishin took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, one of four Russian crew health status assessments currently being conducted (the other three: MO-3 (Physical Fitness Evaluation), MO-7 (Calf Volume Measurement) &amp; MO-8 (Body Mass Measurement), the first MO-9 for both of them. Afterwards, Sergey closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware. [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today. The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program. Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
 Anton concluded his 2nd session of the standard 24-hr. ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2-2 protocol, started yesterday. [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, FE-1 doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit. The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application. Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
 Afterwards, it was Anatoly Ivanishin’s turn to start his 2nd session of the PZE MO-2-2 24-hr. protocol which monitors human cardiovascular performance in the space flight environment.
 
 After yesterday’s successful checkouts of the CUCU (COTS UHF Communication Unit) equipment and shutdown of ground systems, Dan Burbank powered down the onboard CUCU hardware early in the morning. [The testing had posed a minor command line issue which was assessed by MCC-X (SpaceX Mission Control Center), resulting in troubleshooting procedures for CDR Burbank. After cycling the circuit breaker for CUCU RIO A (Remote Input/Output A) A, ground teams received data from this RIO and verified proper command capability with CUCU.]
 
 Dan Burbank also completed the standard 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack. [AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient. It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.]
 
 Ivanishin conducted the routine verification of yesterday’s refreshes of the IUS AntiVirus program on all Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2. [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the recent SSCV4 software update. Before the installation on 8/8 of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1,RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1. On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops. Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily. On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
 Dan Burbank spent most of his work hours on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab, first reviewing today’s activities, then gathering the necessary equipment and setting up the MWA WSA (Maintenance Work Area Work Surface Area) for payload use by ground commanding. [After Mike Fossum, on 10/20, had configured the back of the CIR Optics Bench in preparation for starting MDCA FLEX-2 (Multi-User Droplet Combustion Apparatus / Flame Extinguishment Experiment 2) test points and also had added an imaging package for taking science images and an FCF IPSU (Image Processing &amp; Storage Unit) for processing &amp; storing these images, Dan Burbank today performed the remaining tasks required for the ground to start FLEX-2 test points. Activities inside the CIR included removing the MDCA CIA (Chamber Insert Assembly) and restraining it to the MWA WSA, with MTL (Moderate Temperature Loop) lines disconnected, replacing two MDCA fuel reservoirs (#2018 with 1.5 mL ISO-Octane and #2019 with 1.5 mL of 50% Heptane, 50%ISO-Octane), replacing the radiometer in the CIA because of its insufficient performance, then installing the CIA back in the combustion chamber, with MTL lines connected, backing out and closing up.]
 
 In preparation for the arrival of Soyuz TMA-03M/29S, Anatoly worked on the SSC-2 (Station Support Computer 2) T61p laptop, first transitioning its wireless function to wired connection to an additional Ethernet input after the loss of nominal Ethernet connection via the BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router), and then troubleshooting the loss. SSC-2 will be required for downlinking video of the spacecraft docking. 
 
 Afterwards, Ivanishin continued the current round of the periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems in the FGB, cleaning the detachable VT7 fan screens of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4), plus the fixed GZhT4 grill with vacuum cleaner and soft brush.
 
 Working several hours of outfitting in the SM, FE-1 Shkaplerov installed the ATV PCE (Automated Transfer Vehicle / Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) hardware, started yesterday. [Specifically, Anton laid out the associated BKS cabling and installed the PCE Z0000 prox comm box and BUAP antenna switching control box, then connected the cabling to the MBRL mono-block with its PU control panel, supported by ground specialist tagup on S-Band and VHF. PCE uses the external WAL3 (Low Gain) and WAS2 (Medium Gain) antennas on the SM.]
 
 Burbank supported a ground-commanded transition of the three C&amp;C MDM (Command &amp; Control Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) computers for the upcoming EPIC (Enhanced Processor &amp; Integrated Communications) software upgrade, by reconnecting all PCS (Portable Computer System) laptops immediately after the transition. [Upon a primary C&amp;C transition (transfer of priority between computers), all laptops disconnect. The transition was to be executed in two steps: first leaving MDM #3 as Prime, #1 as Backup and #2 on Standby, then, after checking proper execution, swapping the two latter, leaving #2 as Backup and #1 on Standby. At least 2 PCS needed to be reconnected by Flight Rule, to provide redundancy for C&amp;W (Caution &amp; Warning), USOS Commanding, and Telemetry Insight.]
 
 Before sleeptime, Dan will also perform the periodic reboot of the SLT (System Laptop Terminal) laptop in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).
 
 In the SM, Anatoly continued the longer-term outfitting task, started yesterday, of phasing out old generation lights in the RS and replacing them with new lights, as well as light panel fuses. [Ten currently installed SSD305 lights were to be removed (to be trashed), as well as the two SSD301 lights from Soyuz 28S before its undocking (for recycling). More SSD307 lights will be delivered on the next Progress.]
 
 Meanwhile, Anton worked in the FGB replacing 6 light fixtures with new units.
 
 FE-1 also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 FE-2 performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp;KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 FE-1 &amp; FE-2 had their standard weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Anatoly at ~9:30am, Anton at ~11:40am.
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR).
 
 In Node-3, the CDR afterwards closed down the T2 advanced treadmill’s software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.
 
 A new task added to Dan Burbank’s voluntary “job jar” task list was his 3rd weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) activity on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) which was deferred on 12/17. [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software. Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins. The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health. Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1 &amp; FE-2 for today suggested more preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
 Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
 JEMRMS Ground Control Demos: JAXA’s Robotics Team (KIBOTT) has been performing two of four ground-control demonstrations of the JEM Robotic Maneuvering System at the Kibo JPM, one on 12/6 (Joint OCAS Maneuver), the other this morning at ~2:35am-6:15am EST (Unloaded/Non-Proximity Maneuver in FOR OCAS). The third (Unloaded/Proximity Maneuver and Grapple/Ungrapple) is scheduled for tomorrow, the fourth at a later date during the HTV3 mission. The first three demos serve as the technical verification for JEMRMS unloaded maneuvering by Ground Control, the fourth demo for the verification of JEMRMS loaded maneuvering. There is no crew interaction or support required for the Ground Control Demos except for a few switch throws back on 12/5 and for an off-nominal case. [OCAS = Operator Commanded Auto Sequence; FOR = Frame of Reference.]
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Bosumtwi Impact Crater, Ghana (ISS had a nadir pass over this rarely photographed impact crater in western Africa. The crater is almost completely filled by a lake, and is one of only four impact craters associated with a tektite strewn field. Bosumtwi is located to the west of Lake Volta, which is the largest reservoir by surface area in the world. As the crew approached from the SW, they were to try to capture this crater with a long lens), and San Salvador, El Salvador (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of El Salvador. The city is located between the San Salvador volcano to the west and Lake Illopango [also of volcanic origin] to the east. Overlapping mapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural areas were requested).
 
 
