
Payloads:
Cerebral Ageing: The remaining Cerebral Ageing hardware and Velcro Bars were removed from the LSG Work Volume and the LSG Right Caps were installed to put the LSG back into its standard configuration. The Impact of Spaceflight on Human Brain Ageing Using Cerebral Organoids (Cerebral Ageing) investigation studies the effect of spaceflight and the durability in space on cerebral organoids, i.e., 3D human-derived structures that closely resemble a developing human brain, at the molecular and cellular level.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-27 (J-SSOD-27): J-SSOD-27 Multi Deployer was removed from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP). J-SSOD-27 contains the Clark sat-1 and Beak satellites, which were deployed last week. J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Maritime Awareness: The Maritime Awareness Radio hardware was removed from Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (ExPRESS) Rack 2, Drawer 1 and stowed for return. Nearly all commercial ships on the world’s oceans are being tracked and monitored using the Automatic Identification System (AIS), but the curvature of the Earth blocks the signals when ships are far from shore. The Global AIS on Space Station (GLASS) (Maritime Awareness) investigation uses a space-based AIS receiver system on the ISS to acquire and disseminate ship information.
Thermal Amine Scrubber Control Unit Reinstall: After returning to orbit on SpX-29, the refurbished Thermal Amine Scrubber Control Unit was installed into ExPRESS Rack 2. Thermal Amine Scrubber tests a method to remove carbon dioxide (CO2) from air aboard the International Space Station, using actively heated and cooled amine beds. Last year, the scrubber was performing unexpectedly, and the control unit was returned to ground for analysis.  Ground teams were able to determine the root cause of issues and successfully refurbish the unit before returning on SpX-29.
Systems:
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection: The crew completed a routine monthly inspection of the AED and its associated consumables.  The crew tested batteries and examined the outer AED case and AED Electrodes Kit.
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Calibration: As part of routine EVA maintenance, the TAK was installed onto the PGT and used to record output torque data.  Five data points were taken for each PGT setting, which was then downlinked for analysis on the ground. The next planned EVA is in early 2024, where the crew will perform a spacewalk during the planned Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval 2.5 EVA.
SpaceX Crew Dragon Emergency Response Training: Today, the Endurance crew reviewed the emergency Deorbit, Entry, and Landing Contingencies response as well as the free-flight depress and fire response for the SpaceX Crew Dragon Vehicle. The onboard reviews will make sure the crew’s training is fresh in the event there is an emergency on the space station.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Vibration Isolation Sysytem (VIS) Lockout Pin Tether Remove and Replace (R&R): After arriving on SpX-29, a spare set of ARED VIS Lockout Pin Tether assemblies was used to replace the old set of assemblies.  Previously during crew debriefs and photo reviews, it was reported and confirmed that both ARED VIS lockout pin tethers were frayed and needed replacement.  The crew had temporarily taped the frayed edges until a spare set of pin tether assemblies could be flown up.  
Starboard Radiator Imagery Survey: A routine survey was taken of the starboard radiator to inspect for damage.  The crew took two sets of imagery using a 50-500mm lens from the starboard/forward MRM2 window. Ground teams assisted by rotating the starboard radiator 180 degrees for different viewing angles.  This imagery is completed annually.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Sample Operations: The crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
