
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Status:  This morning, crew reported that one of the two Vibration Isolation System dashpots on the left side of ARED was broken at the rod end.  As a result, the crew was unable to perform morning session ARED exercises.  Kopra and Kelly subsequently changed out the left and right side dashpots utilizing newer, more robust designed replacements to restore ARED functionality.
 
Marrow:  Peake took his Flight Day 9 blood and breath and air samples after waking today, in support of the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow investigation.  This investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
 
Circadian Rhythms:  Peake doffed the Armband Monitor and Thermolab sensors and belt that he has worn for 36 hours and downloaded the recorded data.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
 
Neuromapping: Kelly completed a NeuroMapping Neurocognitive test on a Human Research Facility laptop today.  The Neuromapping experiment studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking; as well as measuring how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from those possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from crewmembers returning from a long-duration spaceflight suggests that movement control and cognition are affected in microgravity.
 
Radi-N Neutron Field Study (Radi-N):  Kornienko handed over eight Radi-N detectors to Kelly, who then deployed them in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) for the Radi-N experiment. This is the fourth of six RADI-N dosimeter deploys for Increments 45 and 46.  The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
 
Ocular Health Ocular and Cardiac Ultrasounds:  Kelly and Kornienko took ocular and cardiac ultrasounds as part of their series of Flight Day 270 Ocular Health tests.   The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risks of microgravity-induced visual impairment and increased intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Cardio Ox:  Kopra and Peake collected blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of their carotid and brachial arteries to support their Flight Day 15 Cardio Ox session.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans are obtained at the same time points and through 5 years after landing.
 
Spare Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Checkout Teardown:  Following yesterday’s successful checkout of the spare SSU, Peake removed power and data cables, then stowed the spare SSU.  In addition, he relocated the Station Support Computer (SSC) used for the checkout back to its original location in Node 3.   The SSU was declared GO to replace SSU 1B during an Extravehicular Activity (EVA) planned for January 15th
 

