
Sarcolab-3 Deconfigure and Stow: After successful completion of the Flight Day (FD) 30-60 sessions on Tuesday and Wednesday, the crew deconfigured and stowed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES). Later today, the crew will verify and downlink the data and stow the remaining ancillary Sarcolab-3 hardware. The next session will be in the FD 30-60 window. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus, or calf muscle, where it joins the Achilles tendon which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Japanese-Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) Exchange: On Monday, the satellite housed in J-SSOD #5 was successfully deployed and the launcher was returned to the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table.  Today, the crew removed J-SSOD #5 and installed J-SSOD #6, the first Enhanced J-SSOD which is able to launch twice the satellites when compared to previous deployers.  J-SSOD #6 will deploy the following experiments:

AOBA-Velox-III (2U): A demonstration of Pulsed Plasma Thruster
TuPOD (3U): Deployment of two CubeSat daughter satellites
EGG (3U): Demonstration to unfold a toroidal inflable structure for aeroshells
ITF-2 (1U): Builds a network for people using satellite data
FREEDOM (1U): Demonstrate a de-orbit devices using a thin-film unfolding mechanism in space
WASEDA-SAT3 (1U): Image projection on the surface of a drag chute with a micro-projector

Manufacturing Device: With ground support, the crew was able to recover the Manufacturing Device capability.  The crew was able to trim the printing filament to prevent jamming then they reinstalled the canister into the 3-D printer.  Ground teams report that the Manufacturing Device is ready for printing operations.  Manufacturing Device consists of the Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF), a permanent manufacturing facility on the ISS, providing hardware manufacturing services. The ability to manufacture on the ISS enables on-demand repair and production capability, as well as essential research for manufacturing on long-term missions. AMF allows for immediate repair of essential components, upgrades of existing hardware, installation of new hardware that is manufactured, and the manufacturing capability to support commercial interests on the ISS.
Advanced Colloids Experiment Temperature Control-1 (ACE-T-1) Module Installation: On Tuesday, the crew successfully replaced the failed Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Image Processing and Storage Unit (IPSU).  Today, the crew replaced the ACE-T-1 module with the next experiment module that was flown up on HTV-6.  ACE-T-1 studies tiny suspended particles which have been designed by scientists to connect themselves in a specific way to form organized structures within water. The particles that were flown on HTV-6 are cylindrical in shape, versus bullet-shaped as the previous ACE-T-1 module investigated.  Materials having complex structures and unique properties potentially can be made with more knowledge of how these particles are joined together and the conditions which control their behaviors. FIR is a complementary fluid physics research facility designed to host investigations in areas such as colloids, gels, bubbles, wetting and capillary action, and phase changes, including boiling and cooling. 
Aerosol Sampling: Today was the fourth of five Active Aerosol Sampler (AAS) deployments.  The samplers were placed in the LAB and Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) near the deployed Passive Samplers. The LAB location was chosen to capture particle samples for a “typical” day, to compare with a LAB sampling session performed on December 8.  The PMM location was chosen to capture particle samples in a “low people traffic” area, i.e. stowage. The battery powered AAS, actively pulls in air and collects particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel. During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in the EM for analysis.
Node 1 (N1) Galley Rack Operations: The crew completed steps to provide Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) utilities to the N1 Galley Rack. They routed ITCS Jumpers from the N1 Forward Port Alcove into, and along, the Deck Port Standoff area to the Utility Interface Panel on the rack which will provide Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) cooling to the rack. Per the plan, no connections were made to the Galley Rack or Node 1 Forward Port Alcove QDs which will be planned in the future. 
H-2 Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Cargo Operations: The crew has unloaded all cargo from the vehicle. They are now ready to load the vehicle. 

