
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K):  The crew retrieved several Multi-Use Brackets (MUBs) needed for the ARED-K experiment session, currently planned for tomorrow. Resistive exercise is used as a countermeasure to musculoskeletal deconditioning in microgravity and currently ISS crews perform resistive exercise using ARED. However, a major unknown is the internal bone and muscle forces developed during exercise in microgravity. In addition, squat and deadlift resistance exercise loads used in flight have to be increased to account for the loss of body weight in microgravity and it is unknown how the level of body weight replacement (BWR) affects bone and muscle loads. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the space station. 
Astro Bit: Experiments 3-5 were performed for the Astro Bit series of experiments, and the data was transferred to the ground. These experiments look at light intensity on the ISS, an accelerometer designed to point toward the Earth, and a space compass pointing true North. As part of the ultra:space, Coding on ISS with Astro Bit experiment, students in Denmark and the other Scandinavian countries design an experiment that can also be repeated aboard the ISS with an interesting scientific outcome. The students program their own BBC micro:bit microcontrollers to implement their experiment and submit the resulting code, while being permitted to use a number of space station common items. The winning five experiments are then performed and filmed aboard the station using the Astro Bit experiment. The results are downlinked to Earth and returned to the student teams for analysis.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Growth and Extinction Limit (CIR/So FIE/GEL): The crew gained access the CIR rack and started the work to replace experiment samples, replace filters, clean the duct assembly, etc. This will allow the continuation of the GEL experiments, and is the first day of a 2-day series of activities. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. The GEL experiment studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the MSG work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Plant Habitat: Preparation for the Plant Habitat-06 was continued with the inlet and outlet filter replacements. Plant Habitat-06 science activities are scheduled to begin next week.  Plants on Earth and in space must defend themselves from diseases. Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analyses indicate the adaptive response of plants rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Spacecraft Fire Experiment-VI (Saffire-VI): The crew performed the final steps to prepare the Saffire experiment for Cygnus undock by removing the covers on the Saffire components, checking ducts, and taking photos. Understanding how fires spread in space is vital for developing fire prevention measures and fire suppression protocols, but it is difficult to perform flame-related experiments aboard a spacecraft. The Spacecraft Fire Experiments (Saffire) use the Cygnus resupply vehicle after it leaves the space station to reduce risk to crew and spacecraft. Saffire-VI, the last of the series, builds on previous results from Saffire-I through V to test flammability at different oxygen levels and to demonstrate fire detection, combustion product monitoring, and post-fire cleanup capabilities.
Systems:
NG-19 Closeout Operations: The crew finished transferring trash and items marked for disposal into the NG-19 vehicle in preparation for its departure from station. To support a combustion experiment that will occur following Cygnus unberth and prior to reentry, NG-19 was filled to provide an exact amount of open volume for the payload. After completion of cargo operations, the NG-19 hatch was closed. The crew continued NG-19 closeout by preparing the NG-19/Node 1 vestibule for depress and demate. Following crew activities, ground teams finished preparing the disposable vehicle for upcoming release on December 22nd.  
Simplified Aid for Extrahevicular Activity (EVA) Rescue (SAFER) Battery Operations: Today, the crew performed routine EVA maintenance activities on SAFER batteries.  The crew gathered tools and materials needed for upcoming battery operations, removed batteries from SAFERs 1013 and 1015, Replaced EVA batteries with SAFER batteries within the Battery Stowage Compartment, and initiated autocycle for SAFER batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis and Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS EveryWear (EVW) Medication and Nutrition Tracking: The crew recorded daily nutrition and medication intake. EVW is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general.
