
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) preparation: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins, FE-5 Mastracchio, and FE-6 Wakata performed a final tool gather and audit needed for tomorrow’s planned EVA. The crew also reviewed procedures associated with the Ammonia decontamination protocol, EVA timelines, and a briefing package for Long Duration Tie Down Tether (LDTDT) configuration.  EVA #24 hatch open is planned for  ~6:10 am on Saturday, December 21st
Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBOT) Session 2:  Wakata completed a 2nd session on this simulator to gain proficiency in Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations associated with the ETCS Loop A Pump Module removal and replacement.
Node 1 (N1) Isolation Jumper Removal: Hopkins removed the N1 isolation jumper from N1 RS1 Secondary Power Distribution Assembly (SPDA). This activity allowed recovery of power bus Z14B if there was a DC to DC Converter Unit (DDCU) S04B or other upstream power failures.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off the Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF1 and configured it for the Mobile Transporter (MT) translation. They then translated the MT from Worksite 4 (WS4) to WS2. Finally, they maneuvered the SSRMS into position for the start of tomorrow’s EVA and configured the SSRMS, the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and the MBS Payload and On-orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) as required to support EVAs to remove and replace the Loop A Coolant Pump Module.
External Thermal Control System (ETCS) Loop A Depress: Flight Controllers reduced the ETCS Loop A pressure to 180 psi  to help Quick Disconnect (QD) manipulation during the upcoming EVA.
Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Status: Last night an OGA Rotary Separator Accumulator (RSA) fill occurred resulting in a fast shutdown and loss of USOS O2 generation and water circulation. Engineering teams believe the problem is due to a small amount of free gas in the sensor but are conducting evaluations to verify.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Status: The WHC pump separator failed earlier today.  The crew was able to complete a pump separator R&R and the WHC is operating nominally at this time.
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Faults: The Node 3 CDRA experienced several faults since yesterday but has been recovered each time.  Valve ASV 101 was replaced at the end of October. There are no pristine spares on orbit.  There are two ASV valves manifested on Orbital-1 currently scheduled to launch no earlier than January 7, 2014. There are two degraded spares on orbit that were in operation but removed due to performance issues.  Teams are assessing a forward plan.

