
Fluid Shifts – Baseline Imaging: The first of three 49Soyuz subjects performed their Baseline Imaging measurements with assistance from both onboard operators and ground remote guiders.  Ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body. Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer were taken as well. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Optics Bench Configuration, Part 2: The crew continued the preparation for the Cool Flames Investigation (CFI) experiment by completing the reconfiguration and installation of the Optics Bench on the CIR.  The Hi Bit-depth Multi-Spectral (HiBMS) Imaging packages on Universal Mounting Locations 7 and 8 (ULM7 & ULM8). Ground teams are still evaluating how to remove the stuck FLame EXtinguishment (FLEX)-2 Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) trapped within the Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) of the CIR.  Once removed the MDCA will be reconfigured for CFI. CFI provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out — but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment.
ISS Safety Video Survey:  The crew recorded video of the interior volume of the ISS to allow ground teams to assess the current vehicle configuration and identify any safety concern. This survey is performed approximately every 6 months to identify ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, verify emergency egress paths, and confirm access to fire ports and safety equipment.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Conductivity Test: Today, the crew tested the conductivity of water samples obtained earlier this week from EMU 3008.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The crew continued with preparations for the Battery Upgrade EVA. Today, the crew utilized Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software to review the translation paths during the upcoming EVAs, followed by a conference with ground specialists to answer any questions. Ground teams continue to monitor the discharge of the Channel 3A batteries.  The first of the two EVAs to replace the Channel 1A/3A batteries is scheduled Friday, January 9th. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Last night ground specialist powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body and Arm1 in order to grasp Robot Micro Conical Tool 2 (RMCT2) in the SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA).  SPDM Arm1 was then powered down and powered up back again and the Robotics Ground Controllers confirmed that the SPDM Orbital Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism 1 (OTCM1) Payload Status was still Secure.  This verified that the SPDM software update uplinked overnight corrected the anomaly where after power up of a loaded OTCM it no longer had a Payload Status of Secure.  RMCT2 was then released and SPDM Arm1 and the SPDM Body were then reconfigured for the start of the Battery replacement operations scheduled to start on GMT 366.  MSS performance today was nominal. 

