ISS On-Orbit Status 12/26/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  U.S. Holiday – Crew off duty.   Underway: Week 6 of Increment 30 (six-person crew).
 
 After wakeup, Anatoly Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 Also at wakeup, Ivanishin completed the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
 CDR Burbank completed his 10th post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 FE-5 Kuipers began his first suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period. After recording his diet input today, André will begin the urine collections for pH value on Thursday (12/29) and blood sampling on Friday (12/30).  [For Pro K, there will be five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day. The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken. Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection. Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC. There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged). MELFI constraints: Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
 FE-4 Kononenko deactivated the GA/gas analyzer in the Soyuz TMA-03M/29S (#703), docked at MRM1 Rassvet, while FE-1 Shkaplerov did the same with the GA in “his” Soyuz TMA-22/28S (#232) at the MRM2 Poisk.        [The GA’s are activated periodically to check the cabin air in the Descent Modules.]
 
 CDR Burbank performed routine maintenance on the WRS (Water Recovery System) using the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump) to transfer one CWC-I (-Iodine) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) and offloading it, using a particulate filter.[Estimated offload time: ~4 hrs 40 min; max. allowed quantity: 86%].
 
 Dan also worked on the PCS (Portable Computer System) laptops in the US A/L (Airlock), Node-3 and Cupola, taking out their 1553 card and installing the software patch for the upcoming change to EPIC (Enhanced Processor &amp; Integrated Communications).        [The laptops were then labeled as “EPIC PCS”, and the Node-3 PCS temp stowed in the SM, the A/L laptop in the Lab.] 
 
 In preparation for the EPIC conversion of the MDM (Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) computers starting tomorrow, FE-6 Pettit relocated an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop equipped with oscilloscope software to the lab for EPIC card testing and then readied tools and hardware required for the MDM EPIC upgrades.
 
 In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-5 Kuipers supported and terminated the ROALD-2 (Role of Apoptosis in Lymphocyte Depression 2) experiment.       [Activities included removing the two remaining ECs (Experiment Containers) from the KUBIK-3 thermostatically controlled container and securing them in MELFI-1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 1), Dewar 2 for thermal preservation at -80 degC while on ISS, then trashing the dummy EC, switching off temperature on the backup KUBIK-6 in the Kubik Drawer, transferring temperature &amp; centrifuge data files from KUBIK-3 to the EDR (European Drawer Rack) laptop and from there to the EDR MMU (Mass Memory Unit) root directory.  KUBIK-3 was then disconnected and stowed.]
 
 Afterwards, André (a physician by profession) installed two AA batteries in the handle of the laryngoscope, then restowed the device in the Physician Equipment Pack.         [A laryngoscope is a viewing instrument for tracheal intubation and inspection of the larynx, e.g., the vocal folds and glottis.  It consists of a handle containing batteries with a light source and a set of interchangeable blades.]
 
 FE-5 also completed his daily task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire which he started after Soyuz launch and continues on ISS (on an SSC) for his first week in space.     (Photos of the two questionnaires from his time on Soyuz were downlinked to the ground).
 
 In the Lab, the CDR used the video camcorder to capture usage procedures of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) usage procedures in order to facilitate ground understanding of PWD lights functionality and under-dispense issues.
 
 In the newly arrived Soyuz 29S, Oleg Kononenko worked in the Orbital Module (BO), installing and connecting the electronic LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251M1B) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and its TA765B/PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory) unit from SM stowage, recycled from an earlier vehicle.
 
 At ~1:25pm, Don Pettit conducted the periodic VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today with the VHF site at WAL/Wallops (1:29:41pm-1:37:17pm), for a voice check with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation &amp; Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units). [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]
 
 Anatoly Ivanishin conducted the regular monthly/quarterly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization). [Required was an inspection of the condition of harnesses, belt slats, corner bracket ropes, SLD (Subject Load Device) cables &amp; exit pulley housing, IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies) and gyroscope wire ropes for any damage or defects, lubricating as required plus recording control panel time &amp; date values, and making sure that the display cable and skirt were properly secured afterwards.  (Crewnote from Anatoly: “No changes found.  A left corner rope is damaged and gray-taped but I reported it several weeks ago.”)]
 
 Anton Shkaplerov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Kononenko, Kuipers &amp; Pettit spent some time familiarizing themselves with the onboard exercise equipment (CEVIS, TVIS, ARED, T2).   They then observed Burbank’s workout on the T2 advanced treadmill &amp; ARED resistive exerciser as well as Shkaplerov on the TVIS treadmill.       [These introductory sessions are a standard requirement for newcomers before start of onboard workouts.]
 
 At ~7:00am EST, FE-5 Kuipers had his (currently daily) post-arrival PMC (Private Medical Conference) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
 At ~4:20am, the three Russian Flight Engineers joined for a Russian PAO TV downlink, transmitting messages of greetings and well-wishing to two events:  (1) to GCTC (Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center) for a celebration of the New Year 2012, to be attended by GCTC staff, the cosmonaut office, family members, and guests, and (2) to DOSAAF, the Volunteer Association In Support Of Army, Air Force, and Navy on its 85th anniversary (in mid-January 2012, the City of Kirzhach, Vladimir Region, will be hosting a competition to mark the 85th year since the founding of DOSAAF.  Participating in these competitions will be athletic teams, military &amp; patriotic clubs, public patriotic organizations and associations from the entire Vladimir region.
 
 The “old” crew plus Kononenko worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).  This was the first workout for Oleg.
 
 Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
 The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for Shkaplerov, Ivanishin &amp; Kononenko today called for continued preparation &amp; downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 
 
