
Synthetic Bone BioCell Operations: The crew completed microscopy operations for Synthetic Bone and then took a sample from each well on the Synthetic Bone Multiwell BioCell and exchanged the fluids with media in each well.  The samples were placed in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  This experiment uses facilities aboard the ISS to grow bone cells in the presence of a commercially available bone adhesive, and a new product called Tetranite. Determining how well Tetranite integrates with bone cell cultures can inform general strategies for addressing bone loss in space.  Sets of bone cell cultures are grown with different adhesives for 20 days and are then fixed, frozen, and returned to Earth for analysis.
Biological Research In Canisters Light Emitting Diode (BRIC-LED):  The crew performed actuation on the BRIC-LED-001 canisters today.  The BRIC-LED-001 investigation demonstrates the use of light emitting diodes as a lighting source in BRIC hardware and evaluates its use in growing plants in a closed system. Arabidopsis thaliana plants are grown for 10 days onboard the ISS at ambient temperature, with light provided by this new lighting source. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  A crewmember completed body and saliva sample collections in support of the MT-2 investigation today. The MT-2 series continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the ISS. It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms onboard the ISS. Crew pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight samples and environmental samples from ISS surface and air locations are collected to identify any associations between the microbial content of the samples, as well as potential health effects.
Marrow: Upon waking this morning a crewmember collected breath and ambient air samples. The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Using the RED camera, the crew took images of the India-Himalayas-Tibetan Plateau, Europe/Italy in winter conditions and the Nile delta.  EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Space Headaches: Two crewmembers completed daily questionnaires today to support a week-long ESA Space Headaches session which started in the Soyuz vehicle prior to docking to the ISS. The Space Headaches investigation requests crewmembers to respond to a questionnaire that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Dragon External Cargo Operations:  Overnight, Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and reconfigured the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Orbital Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism 1 (OTCM1) to grasp and rotate the SPDM Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP). They then maneuvered the SPDM and Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to use SPDM OTCM1 to grasp and extract the Total & Spectral solar Irradiance Sensor (TSIS) payload from the SpaceX-13 Dragon Trunk and to stow it on the SPDM EOTP. Finally, the SPDM and SSRMS were configured to a park position. Operations were nominal.
Ammonia Measurement Kits (AMK) Chip Changeout:  The Ammonia measurement system chips installed in the AMKs were set to expire at the end of the year. The crew replaced these in both kits with new chips that arrived on Orbital ATK 8 (OA-8). 
SpaceX 13 (SpX-13) Dragon Cargo Ops:  The crew continued packing items for return on SpX-13.  As of Thursday, approximately 31 hours of cargo ops have been completed. SpX-13 is scheduled to unberth and return to earth on January 13, 2018.
53 Soyuz (53S) Unpack:  Today the crew completed unpacking and stowage of all United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) hardware that arrived on 53S. 

