
Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ) Repositioning for Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS)-02: Due to the high negative beta angle, the AMS team requested that the Starboard-Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (S-TRRJ) be moved to a better angle to provide a more optimal temperature for the Transition Radiation Detector (TRD) pump.  Ground teams will continue to monitor the TRD pump temperature, and will be required to activate the pump if the temperature reaches 7° Celsius resulting in a loss of science.  AMS-02 has collected and analyzed billions of cosmic ray events, and identified 9 million of these as electrons or positrons (anti-matter). The number of high energy positons increases steadily rather than decaying, conflicting with theoretical models and indicates a yet to be identified source of positrons. Researchers also observed a plateau in the positron growth curve and need additional data to determine why. Results suggest that high-energy positrons and cosmic ray electrons may come from different and mysterious sources. Solving the origin of cosmic rays and antimatter increases understanding of our galaxy.
ISS RapidScat: The RapidScat payload, located on the nadir Columbus Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) went into a Digital Interface Bridge (DIB) only mode on 24 December, with no science collection or antenna spinning due to a combination of the high negative beta and the ISS attitude with a yaw-bias for Service Module shadowing.  Ground teams reactivated RapidScat today to the nominal wind-gathering observation mode.  ISS RapidScat is a space-based scatterometer that measures wind speed and direction over the ocean, and is useful for weather forecasting, hurricane monitoring, and observations of large-scale climate phenomena. The ISS RapidScat instrument enhances measurements from other international scatterometers by cross-checking their data, and demonstrates a unique way to replace an instrument aboard an aging satellite.
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kopra performed his Flight Day (FD) 14 thigh and calf ultrasound scans with assistance from Kelly and guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
Skin-B:  Peake performed his first Skin-B activity, completing Corneometer measurements of the hydration level of the stratus coreum (outer layer of the skin), Tewameter measurements of the skin barrier function, and Visioscan measurements of skin surface topography. The European Space Agency (ESA) Skin-B investigation aims to improve the understanding of skin aging, which is greatly accelerated in space.  The data will also be used to verify the results from previous SkinCare investigation testing on the ISS.
Sleep Actiwatch Downlink and Configuration: Kelly downloaded data from his and Kornienko’s Actiwatch Spectrums and configured the devices to continue collecting data.  The actiwatches have a photodiode that measures ambient light and an accelerometer to measure the movement of the arm or leg to which the watch is attached.  The actiwatch data recorded on the watch supports the Sleep ISS-12 experiment which assesses the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
Education Payloads Operations (EPO) Destination Space:  Peake recorded video that will provide the raw film footage for videos created on the ground for use in Destination Space educational shows and workshops for school groups and families.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition):  This afternoon Peake will perform his FD 13 session of the Cognition experiment.  The investigation is a battery of tests that measures how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
Biochemical Profile and Cardio Ox:  Kopra performed his FD 15 blood and urine collections for the Biochem Profile and Cardio Ox investigations.  The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.
Microbiome and Salivary Markers: Blood and saliva samples were collected from Kopra to support the Microbiome, Telomeres and Salivary Markers investigations. Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).  Telomeres investigates how telomeres and telomerase are affected by space travel.  Salivary Markers data will be used to identify any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection:  Peake conducted a regular inspection of the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit (EHTK), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Masks.  Pre-Breathe Masks are not emergency equipment, but have similar maintenance requirements and are included in this inspection.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Kelly configured a lithium-ion battery charger and initiated an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) charge cycle.  The activity was performed in preparation for the Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) EVA planned for January 15th.

