
Rodent Research: Crew powered down, removed and prepared the Rodent Research habitat for stow. At the conclusion of Rodent research-1 operations, Habitat -2 was positioned in several locations (EXPRESS Rack 1 (ER1), ER2 and Aisle deploy) to thermally characterize areas within the US Lab in preparation for future Rodent Research operations.
 Circadian Rhythms: Cristoforetti completed her 36 hour Circadian Rhythms session and removed the equipment. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
ELITE-S2 (ELaboratore di Immagini TElevisive, Space qualified, version 2 (Blind and Imagined): Cristoforetti reviewed procedures and set up cameras in preparation for her second Blind & Imagined test run.  She performed a camera calibration test, a system calibration, placed body markers and executed test protocols.  The Movement in Orbital Vehicle Experiments Short and Blind (MOVE SB) and Space Height Reference In Non-gravitational Kinetics (SHRINK) Investigations, collectively known as Blind and Imagined, are a series of tests crewmembers perform on the ISS to test their physical senses. Crewmembers move their arms and hands, and then imagine themselves throwing a ball on Earth and in microgravity, while cameras record their movement. The results will help scientists study the sensory and motor changes that take place in the unique environment of space.
40 Soyuz (40S) Emergency Operations Training:  The 40S crew, Wilmore, Samokutyaev and Serova conducted a training exercise to review Soyuz emergency operations in the event of a contingency undock and landing. They reviewed procedures for preparing the Soyuz systems and Sokol suits for undocking and landing.  This training is done periodically through the Increment.
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Component Installation:  Virts installed three new components into the Lab MCA:  Mass Spectrometer, Verification Gas Assembly and Data and Control Unit.  The old components were previously removed and the new components were delivered on SpaceX-4.  The MCA measures major constituents of the ISS atmosphere.

