
Haptics-1:  Wilmore set up Haptics-1 equipment on rack front seat tracks in the Columbus Module, performed five Haptics-1 experiment protocols and transferred data to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink.  The objective of the Haptics-1 experiment is to execute an in-orbit engineering parameter calibration and identification for one joint of an exoskeleton haptic device and record a set of performance measurements with crew operating force reflective controllers in micro-gravity. A single degree of freedom motor-unit with a handle-bar and a control computer are used to perform a set of identification experiments by astronaut crew.
Ocular Health:  Wilmore set up the fundoscope and acting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed Flight Day 30 (FD30) measurements on Virts.  Cristoforetti set up the Ocular Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware and software to support Virts’ FD 30 eye exam.  The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Education Payload Operation (EPO):  Cristoforetti performed two EPO scripts: “Mission X 2015 Italian Edition” and “Bioregenerative closed systems”.  These educational activities were video recorded for future playback.  
Astro Palate:  Virts retrieved a special Astro Palate prepackaged meal, consumed it as his midday meal and completed the Mood and Food Consumption/Satisfaction Questionnaires.  Factors Contributing to Food Acceptability and Consumption, Mood and Stress on Long-Term Space Missions (Astro Palate) studies the relationship among emotions, mood, stress and eating during spaceflight. The study explores ways to minimize stressful aspects of eating so that individuals consume more food and are more satisfied. The experiment also examines ways to use eating to reduce stress or negative moods that crewmembers may normally experience in flight.

