
Spinal Ultrasound Scan Operations:  FE-3 Hopkins, with assistance from the ultrasound operator FE-5 Mastracchio and remote guidance from the ground team, performed the second of his three planned spinal ultrasound scan sessions onboard the ISS. This investigation aims to characterize microgravity-associated spinal alterations during and after spaceflight. Results from this research will be used to enhance crew health for long duration space missions.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device (SLAMMD) Body Measures: Hopkins, Mastracchio and  FE6 Wakata performed body mass measurements which are used in support of Pro K and the Body Measures experiment. SLAMMD provides body mass through the application of Newton’s Second Law of Motion (force is equal to mass times acceleration). Two springs are used to generate a known force against a crewmember mounted on an extension arm and the resulting acceleration is used to calculate the subject’s mass.
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (SPRINT):  Due to an error with the Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS), Wakata  was unable to execute Sprint VO2 operations.  Ground teams are evaluating troubleshooting options. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration of space flight. This will provide invaluable information in support of investigator’s long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
Ocular health Vision Test: Wakata completed the Ocular Health vision test which evaluates visual acuity, visual field and contrast sensitivity.  This is part of the Ocular Health Tonometry scheduled for January 2, 2014.
Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Drill: This on-board training/drill gives crew members the opportunity to work as a team in resolving a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS. The training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures.

