
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The USOS Crew prepared the Equipment Lock, Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU), and ancillary hardware to support the upcoming Battery Upgrade EVA scheduled for Friday, January 6th.   In addition, they conducted an EMU On-Orbit Fit Verification (OFV) in order to confirm the correct sizing on EMUs 3006 and 3008. 
Fluid Shifts – Baseline Imaging: The second of three 49Soyuz subjects performed their Baseline Imaging measurements with assistance from both onboard operators and ground remote guiders.  Ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body. Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer were taken as well. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Fine Motor Skills: The crew performed their weekly Fine Motor Skills tests, performing a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods. 
Aerosol Sampler: Today the crew closed the final collection surfaces on the Passive Aerosol Sampler (PAS).  The PAS was designed with individual drawer-like collection surfaces covered with sticky carbon tape which are open to ISS air for 5 different exposure durations (2, 4, 8, 16 and 32 days). PAS are mounted on the edge of air vents where the drawers directly intercept the air pulled into the ISS ventilation system. These vents often have a build-up of dust that is removed in weekly vacuuming chores, so depending on the sampling location, the longer duration samples are expected to contain visible amounts of airborne debris.

